URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/accounting/non-accounting-background
Master's in Accounting for Non-Accounting Majors | 100% Online | Franklin.edu



















M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)
 

  Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              Accounting
                /  
                                              M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)
                          

  Re-imagine your future with a master’s in accounting for non-accounting majors


Organizations need people who understand the fundamentals of accounting for business, finance, and even forensic accounting. So, what if you’re ready for a career pivot yet don’t have an undergraduate degree in accounting? With our pathway to Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting, you don’t need an accounting background or a bachelor’s in accounting. Franklin’s one-class-at-a-time pathway lets you earn a 100% online M.S. in Accounting in about 31 months, opening the door to new career opportunities for you.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Industry-Aligned Curriculum
Learn to apply best-practice accounting guidelines.



  31-Month Completion
Get to your future career in accounting in less than 3 years.



  Streamlined Pathway
A five-course pathway positions non-accounting majors for success.










Program Overview



Earn a master’s in accounting – without a bachelor’s in accountingWant a career in accounting but didn’t major in it? With Franklin’s 100% online non-majors pathway to an M.S. in Accounting, you don’t need a bachelor’s in accounting to further your education and your career. Franklin offers busy working adults an affordable pathway to build their core accountancy skills – no accounting undergraduate required. With our streamlined pathway to a master’s in accounting, you could ready yourself for Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting degree program in just 5 terms. And, in 31 months you could graduate with an in-demand master’s in accounting degree prepared and ready to start a whole new career.Develop relevant accounting skills and competenciesEstablish your accounting knowledge base and grow your financial and managerial accounting and auditing skills with the master’s bridge program for non-accounting majors. This pathway to Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting degree program consists of 5 corequisite courses, each of which builds upon the other to ensure you’ve developed the essential accounting skills needed to earn a master’s in accounting without an accounting undergraduate degree. At Franklin, you’ll learn the fundamentals of financial reporting, explore cost behavior and analysis, and apply learned theories and concepts to tax accounting, auditing and accounting ethics.How to quickly prepare for the M.S. in Accounting degree programFranklin’s fast-track pathway to a master’s in accounting for non-accounting majors can help you ramp up for a new job opportunity or the next phase of your accounting career – without earning another bachelor’s degree.Franklin’s accounting masters for non-majors pathway not only features industry-relevant accounting bridge courses, it lets you learn from the real-world experience of seasoned, in-field accounting professionals who’ve worked in public and private accounting. Plus, at Franklin, you’ll benefit from convenient and interactive online classes, as well as the support of academic advisors committed to easing your transition to becoming an accounting student. Get started on your future today.Read more >






  Your Best Value Master's in Accounting for Non-Accounting Majors




Choose Franklin's M.S. in Accounting and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$21,440
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








×








  Available M.S. in Accounting Programs




Accredited by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE), Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting helps you boost your accounting knowledge while you build in-demand skills in research, communication and technology. Earn your degree 100% online and balance earning an employer-respected degree with your life.







  M.S. in Accounting Financial Operations Focus
Become a trusted advisor on any management team by learning to think critically about big-picture accounting systems and processes, communicate more effectively, and leverage technology in new and innovative ways.Learn More



  M.S. in Accounting Taxation
Build your prowess with both the technical and non-technical aspects of accounting and learn to navigate critical tax issues. With Franklin’s hands-on curriculum, you’ll emerge with the practical experience necessary to tackle the day-to-day responsibilities of a tax professional.Learn More



  M.S. in Accounting-Pathway for Non-Accounting Majors
Make the career change you’ve been longing for. Five 12-week classes provide the foundational knowledge to prepare you to conquer master’s-level coursework.  Learn More









Curriculum & Course Descriptions




				Major Area Required			




ACCT 700 - Introduction to Research in Accounting and Taxation (4)
A study of the fundamentals of research processes in accounting and taxation. The primary focus of the course will be on analyzing specific accounting and tax issues and utilizing appropriate accounting and tax authorities to determine appropriate conclusions for decision making. Communication of the research, analysis, and conclusion will be in the format of written and verbal contexts. Professional standards and laws, as well as legal, ethical, and regulatory issues will be introduced. 


																					AND																			

ACCT 715 - Financial Accounting Theory (4)
A study of financial accounting theory as it relates to decision making in a contemporary, global financial reporting environment.  Key areas of concentration include development of accounting theory, international financial accounting standards, revenue recognition, review of financial statements and their components, working capital, income taxes, leases, post-retirement benefits, and business combinations.


ACCT 725 - Management Control Processes & Systems (4)
A management system is a set of policies, processes, and procedures used by an organization to ensure it can fulfill the tasks required to achieve its objectives. During this course, we will analyze various management and leadership systems used by managers to ensure goals and strategies are being implemented throughout the organization. Case analysis and research are emphasized.


ACCT 795 - Accounting Research Seminar (4)
This seminar course will provide students with a capstone experience of their academic studies. Students will research and analyze recent literature, both professional and academic, in accounting, focusing on the impact of current developments in various areas of the accounting profession. Students will also apply accounting research strategies, learned over the course of their studies in the program, to a topic agreed upon by the student and professor. Students will present their research findings to colleagues at the end of the course.





				Focus Area			



Taxation:

ACCT 751 - Advanced Personal Income Taxation (4)
This course provides a detailed review of the most prominent income, deduction, and credit issues affecting individuals, particularly those affecting high-income or net-worth individuals or those involved in certain specialized transactions. Topics discussed will include: detailed review of certain itemized deductions; the various loss limitation rule provisions, including the passive activity and at-risk loss limitation rules; the treatment of certain business income and expense items, including individual net operating losses; significant equity and property transactions; and the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Substantial emphasis will be placed on key compliance issues and tax planning opportunities for individuals, particularly those involved in investment, business, or other entrepreneurial activities. The class will include numerous components requiring students to apply the tax law to completing tax forms and in performing tax research related to issues in the course.
ACCT 752 - C-Corporation Taxation (4)
This course provides a comprehensive overview of the fundamental tax principles and consequences of corporate formation, operation, and liquidation to both corporations and their shareholders. Principle topics covered include: corporate formation and capital structure, including the treatment and utilization of debt and the application of Section 351; the taxation of corporate operations, including prominent property transactions, tax incentives and credits, and significant deductions; determination of earnings and profits; the tax treatment of distributions or other payments to shareholders and/or corporate officers; stock redemptions; and corporate liquidations and corporate reorganizations, including mergers, acquisitions, and divisive reorganizations.
ACCT 753 - Pass-Through Entity Taxation (4)
This course covers pass-through entities (partnerships and S-corporations), exempt entities, and family tax planning issues. Partnership topics include partnership formation, operation and basis, distributions, transfer of interests, and terminations. S-corporation taxation focuses on S-Corporation status, operational rules (including taxable income), allocation of income/loss, distributions to shareholders, and basis. Exempt entities are examined including types and characteristics, excise taxes, unrelated business income tax, and reporting requirements. Lastly, the course addresses issues relevant to family tax planning including federal gift and estate taxes, valuation, and income tax concepts. Attention will also be given to practical tax applications including key compliance, reporting issues, and tax planning opportunities.
ACCT 755 - Federal Tax Practice & Procedure (4)
In this course, students are introduced to the responsibilities of practitioners dealing with the Internal Revenue Service. It includes a comprehensive overview of the many aspects of dealing with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in tax matters.  Students will gain a full understanding of the organization of the IRS.  The major topics addressed in the course are ethical responsibilities, tax examinations by the IRS, audit procedures, the authority of the IRS, assessment procedures, statute of limitations, interest and penalties, the appeals process, the collection process, claims for refund and private letter rulings.


																					OR																			
Financial Operations:

ACCT 731 - Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (4)
A study of the enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems used by organizations to integrate information flow through a wide variety of disparate functions. This course involves analyzing how an ERP system works, examining the advantages and risks of ERP systems, and evaluating ERP system implementation strategies. Case analysis is emphasized.
ACCT 732 - Forensic Accounting (4)
A study of the investigative and analytical skills used in preventing, discovering, and resolving financial irregularities in a manner that meets the standards required by applicable laws and/or regulations. The course begins with an examination of the legal fundamentals of forensic accounting followed by an analysis of the key tools and techniques used by forensic accountants. This foundational background is then used in the analysis of common forensic accounting applications. Case analysis is emphasized.
ACCT 733 - Advanced Auditing and Data Analytics (4)
A study of auditing issues from case studies and application of data mining techniques in solving audit issues. Key area of concentration with case studies include client acceptance, understanding client business, audit risk assessment, materiality, fraud considerations, internal control objectives and deficiencies, auditing business processes and related accounts, and professional and ethical responsibilities. Key areas of focus with data mining techniques include application with ACL software tables, filters, and commands; audit planning; test of transactions and test of balances. Students will also explore the use of ACL software for forensic auditing and management reports.
ACCT 734 - Enterprise Risk Analysis & Management (4)
A study of the identification, analysis, measurement, management of operational and financial risk within an organization. Key areas of focus include a historical perspective of risk, the implementation of a risk management program, allocation of capital, and measurement of performance.





				Corequisites			




Complete one of the following: 
ACCT 215 - Financial Accounting (4)
This course is an introduction to accounting, emphasizing how general-purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course examines major elements of the statements such as cash, receivables, inventory, long-lived assets, depreciation, time value of money, payroll, bonds, and other liabilities and stocks. Concepts of this course are applied to ACCT 225 (Managerial Accounting). Students are advised to avoid any time lapse between these two courses.


ACCT 225 - Managerial Accounting (4)
The study of management accounting for internal reporting and decision-making. The course introduces a business-management approach to the development and use of accounting information. Major topics include cost behavior, cost analysis, profit planning and control measures. Accounting for decentralized operations, capital budgeting decisions, and ethical challenges in managerial accounting are also covered.


																					OR																			
OR

ACCT 729 - Financial & Managerial Accounting (4)
Effective leadership in today's complex and highly regulated business environment demands more than a working knowledge of basic accounting practices. Managers must fully grasp sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts and be able to apply them with ease in handling day-to-day responsibilities. Managers must also be well versed in the intricacies of corporate governance and asset protection. In this course, students will develop a clear understanding of these critical functions and issues. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting, including professional structure, the interrelationships of financial statements, and multiple forms of financial analysis. Additionally, the functional aspects of managerial accounting will be covered, including planning, decision making, and performance evaluation.



																					AND																			

Complete one of the following: 
ACCT 310 - Intermediate Accounting I (4)
Intermediate Accounting I is the first of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, the conceptual framework, development of generally accepted accounting principles, and applications are stressed. Topics include the income statement, statement of cash flows and, the balance sheet, specifically the asset accounts.


ACCT 320 - Intermediate Accounting II (4)
This course is the second of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, concepts, and applications are stressed. Topics include time value of money, current and non-current liabilities, leases, deferred taxes, retirement benefits, stockholders' equity, earnings per share, accounting changes and errors, and the statement of cash flows. 


																					OR																			
OR

ACCT 500 - Intermediate Accounting (4)
This course covers how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course covers the conceptual framework, development of generally accepted accounting principles, and applications are stressed. Topics include the income statement, the statement of cash flows and the balance sheet.



																					AND																			


ACCT 470 - Auditing (4)
A study of the planning, evidence gathering, internal control review, sampling, and application of procedures used to audit assets, liabilities, equity and related income statement accounts of a profit-oriented enterprise. Includes an evaluation of the audit profession including professional standards, ethics and liability of CPAs. Also includes a student-prepared audit case for hands-on application of audit procedures. The reporting requirements for compilation and review services and a thorough study of the types of audit opinions will also be studied. In addition, an audit research paper is required.



																					AND																			


Complete the above courses or the equivalent from an accredited school. Prerequisites must be completed with a grade of C or better. ACCT 470 is only needed for students taking ACCT 733.












Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Advanced Accounting



Audit Specialist



Financial Accounting Specialist



Management Accounting Specialist





Learn More







  M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background) Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Corequisites
The Master of Science in Accounting program requires Financial Accounting (ACCT 215), Managerial Accounting (ACCT 225), Intermediate Accounting I (ACCT 310), Intermediate Accounting II (ACCT 320), and Auditing (ACCT 470), or the equivalent from an accredited school. Corequisites must be completed with a grade of C or better.




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Science in Accounting students must earn at least 18 of the 30 required credits at Franklin University.Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees.Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.




Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Chris Barrett
Crowe Horwath LLP
Managing Partner, Tax


Kerri Bashore
Nationwide
Director, Corporate Compliance


Daniel Click
KPMG LLP
Managing Dir., Consulting


Will Dokko
KPMG LLP
Principal, Advisory Mkt. Leader


Richard Filler
Aetna
CFO Ohio/Kentucky Market


Charles Gossman
Ohio Health
VP of Finance for Central Market


Michael Kaizar
Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation
Forensic Accountant


Tara Kanavel
Nationwide
AVP, Accounting & Finance Solution


Samuel Kirk
Ohio Auditor of State
Special Prosecutor


Keith Martinez
Plante & Moran
Office Managing Partner


Angel Mumma
Columbus Zoo
SVP Finance


Gary Shamis
Winding River Consulting
Leader. Speaker. Author. Change Agent.


Brad Trimble
Columbus State Community College
Professor of Accounting


Cathy Vrenna
Vrenna Enterprises, LLC
Owner + CEO


Scott Wiley
The Ohio Society of CPAs
President + CEO








Frequently Asked Questions





		I didn’t major in accounting. How difficult is the M.S. in Accounting degree program?
		


Your individual background, aptitude and interests will shape how you learn. As a STEM major, accounting is rooted in rigorous mathematical thinking and quantitative, problem-solving. The difficulty of earning a master’s in accounting without an accounting undergraduate degree can be subjective, so we can’t say for sure how difficult it will be for you. What we can tell you is what it takes to be successful.
Students who do well typically possess strong analytical skills, and are thorough, detail-oriented, and highly organized. While advanced math skills aren’t required, a solid foundation in math and a penchant for numbers and calculations is essential. Successful students also are good at problem-solving and critical thinking, which helps them identify and resolve financial problems.
Ultimately, the difficulty of a program is influenced by the effort and dedication put forth by the student. Individuals who consistently put in the work, manage their time well, seek help when they need it, and maintain a positive attitude are the most successful in this program.
Remember, at Franklin, you’re not alone in your journey to earn your master’s in accounting even if you didn’t earn an accounting undergraduate. Franklin faculty and staff are here to offer academic advice from start-to-finish.




		How long does it take to earn a master’s in accounting for non accounting majors?
		


Franklin's pathway to an accounting master’s for non-majors is specifically designed for busy, working adults. You can expect to complete this accounting foundations bridge program in 5 terms, preparing you to enroll in the M.S. in Accounting degree program, which can be completed in 17 months. With that in mind, you could finish your M.S. in Accounting – including corequisites – in about 2-1/2 years (31 months).




		Can I get a job with this degree and no experience?
		


The good news is that your next career move is up to you. Many entry-level accounting positions require little to no experience, and employers often value other qualifications, such as education, the ability to sit for the CPA exam, and potential for growth. If you want to gain experience while working toward your degree, you may want to consider interning with an accounting firm or volunteering with our Volunteer Tax Assistance Program. 




		Can I do an internship for hands-on experience?
		


Absolutely! As part of our mission to provide high-quality educational experiences that support adult learning within the context of doing, we encourage student internships. Not only is an internship a great way to gain hands-on experience, it allows you to explore your career options, build a professional network, and enhance your resume. 
During your internship, you’ll learn professional skills, such as communication, leadership, and teamwork. Plus, internships can help increase your job prospects and provide you with a competitive edge in the job market. Ask an advisor and/or program chair for more information and learn more about internships, apprenticeships, co-ops and gig experiences here.




		Why should I get a master’s in accounting degree instead of a technical certification?
		


Franklin University’s M.S. in Accounting degree provides you with a comprehensive and in-depth accounting education that you often won’t receive from a certification program. An M.S. in Accounting degree adds professional credibility that can open doors to new employers or to more senior or specialized roles within your current organization. Earning your M.S. in Accounting degree can lead to long-term earning potential, too, since individuals with higher levels of education tend to have higher lifetime earnings potential. Lastly, our master’s in accounting for non-majors program can provide you with unique networking opportunities with professors, fellow students, and Franklin alumni – all of which can help you build lasting professional relationships that are invaluable for career advancement.




		Will this degree prepare me for the CPA exam?
		


As a student in Franklin’s online accounting master’s degree, you’ll gain the foundational knowledge to prepare for the CPA exam. To become a licensed CPA, you’ll need 150 hours of college credit including advanced accounting knowledge. At Franklin, you’ll develop in-depth knowledge that aligns with the CPA exam, helping you better understand and answer the exam questions. In addition, our graduate courses include assignments that are specifically designed to prepare students for the CPA exam, including practice CPA exam questions and exam strategies. This targeted preparation can help you familiarize yourself with the format and content of the exam and, thereby, greatly improve your likelihood of success.




		Do I need prerequisite courses for the M.S. in Accounting degree program? If so, how will I know if I’m ready to start my accounting master’s for non-majors?
		


Your success depends a lot on you – and Franklin is here to help. Our master’s in accounting for non-business majors includes corerequisites to help you build the strong accounting foundation necessary to succeed in the graduate-level program. These courses cover the introductory material required for more advanced coursework, so you can be assured that you’ll be well-prepared for the more challenging material you’ll encounter in the M.S. in Accounting degree program.




		Can I take the prerequisite courses for the M.S. in Accounting somewhere else and transfer them to Franklin?
		


Yes, you may take prerequisite courses from any accredited school.




		Should I get a second bachelor’s, this one in accounting, instead of an M.S. in Accounting?
		


If you’ve earned a non-accounting bachelor’s degree, pursuing a master’s degree instead of a second bachelor's degree in accounting could allow you to take a more focused approach. Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting degree allows you to specialize in either financial operations or taxation, whereas a bachelor’s degree offers a much broader field of study.
So, if you’re looking to develop advanced skills in a particular area of accounting, a master’s degree provides greater opportunity to deepen your understanding of the subject matter. A master’s degree also can help you stand out in a competitive job market and help with career advancement – especially if you’re interested in a management or leadership role.


See All >









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog