URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/accounting/taxation
Master's in Taxation Online | MS Accounting Taxation Program | Franklin.edu



















M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus
 

  

32Credit Hours17Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationAccreditationIACBE Accreditation InformationThe Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located  at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a listing of accredited programs, click here. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. Learn more >Request InfoApply TodayCost Estimator

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              Accounting
                /  
                                              M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus
                          

  Resolve complex tax issues with an online master’s degree in accounting 


With a fierce command of the technical and non-technical aspects of accounting, today’s accounting professionals occupy a well-earned place at the management table. Franklin’s 17-month online M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation provides hands-on experience with tax returns, tax research, tax memos and tax planning. Not only will you understand critical tax issues, you’ll emerge with valuable experience in many of a tax professional’s day-to-day responsibilities.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  IACBE Accredited

Our program follows best-practice standards for business education.



  Finish Fast
Finish your master's in as few as 17 months.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn best practices from in-field accounting professionals.










  M.S. in Accounting Taxation Focus Program Overview





  Gain deep knowledge of the primary sources and application of tax law

Franklin’s theory-to-practice M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation builds your familiarity with tax code, regulations, case law and rulings, as well as how they are applied. You’ll be challenged to apply your prior knowledge to various sets of facts to determine relevant outcomes.Coursework and assignments will prepare you to assist taxpayers in dealing with the IRS in examinations, collections, rulings, etc. Upon completion of your master’s degree and depending upon your undergraduate program, you'll also have the required hours and foundational knowledge needed to sit for professional accounting certification exams, such as the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) designation, which would qualify you to represent clients at IRS meetings.Be prepared to handle advanced tax concepts of clients and/or employersWhether you choose to work in-house for an organization, with an accounting firm or in the public sector, you’ll learn advanced tax concepts, then apply those concepts to properly prepare tax returns and schedules and to identify tax planning opportunities. As part of the Taxation focus area, you’ll explore pertinent topics such as corporate and individual taxation, pass-through entities and gift and estate taxes. You’ll be able to draw on your research to understand how various laws apply to specific situations. Moreover, Franklin's transfer-friendly Master's in Accounting program is accredited by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE), the leader in outcomes-based accreditation in business, so you know you're earning a respected degree with value in the workplace.Develop critical-thinking skills necessary to resolve tax questions and disputes Throughout the program, you’ll identify tax issues, as well as the questions that must be asked to resolve those tax issues, then create a properly formatted tax communication. You’ll get hands-on experience with tools of the trade like the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® database and RIA Checkpoint®, but more importantly, you’ll also practice communicating your findings with confidence and clarity. You’ll also learn in small classes led by professors who are in-field practitioners. These interactive courses with peers, who are also professionals who bring expertise in a range of industries, create a valuable professional network and a 360-degree learning environment. Transfer up to 12 credits and finish your online master’s in accounting fasterIf you have taken graduate-level accounting courses, you may be able to transfer credit and save time and money toward your Franklin master’s degree. Franklin offers course-for-course credit to satisfy elective requirements for the M.S. in Accounting. To see if your previous coursework can be used to satisfy degree requirements, you’ll need to submit a syllabus for the course(s) you’d like to have evaluated for transfer credit. Your admissions advisor will be happy to assist you in any way.   Read more >



Kelly W.
M.S. in Accounting '21
"Earning my master's degree means that I am able to provide a different future for my daughter and shows her the benefits of hard work and education." 












  International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE)
The Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a list of accredited programs please view our IACBE member status page. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. For more information about the International Accreditation Council for Business Education, please click here or visit www.iacbe.org.










  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 









  Your Best Value M.S. in Accounting




Choose Franklin's accredited M.S. Accounting and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates for the M.S. in Accounting provide value and quality.







Finish Fast


17
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner.






Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$21,440
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.






Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×








  M.S. in Accounting Taxation Focus Courses & Curriculum





				Major Area Required			




ACCT 700 - Introduction to Research in Accounting and Taxation (4)
A study of the fundamentals of research processes in accounting and taxation. The primary focus of the course will be on analyzing specific accounting and tax issues and utilizing appropriate accounting and tax authorities to determine appropriate conclusions for decision making. Communication of the research, analysis, and conclusion will be in the format of written and verbal contexts. Professional standards and laws, as well as legal, ethical, and regulatory issues will be introduced. 


																					AND																			

ACCT 715 - Financial Accounting Theory (4)
A study of financial accounting theory as it relates to decision making in a contemporary, global financial reporting environment.  Key areas of concentration include development of accounting theory, international financial accounting standards, revenue recognition, review of financial statements and their components, working capital, income taxes, leases, post-retirement benefits, and business combinations.


ACCT 725 - Management Control Processes & Systems (4)
A management system is a set of policies, processes, and procedures used by an organization to ensure it can fulfill the tasks required to achieve its objectives. During this course, we will analyze various management and leadership systems used by managers to ensure goals and strategies are being implemented throughout the organization. Case analysis and research are emphasized.


ACCT 795 - Accounting Research Seminar (4)
This seminar course will provide students with a capstone experience of their academic studies. Students will research and analyze recent literature, both professional and academic, in accounting, focusing on the impact of current developments in various areas of the accounting profession. Students will also apply accounting research strategies, learned over the course of their studies in the program, to a topic agreed upon by the student and professor. Students will present their research findings to colleagues at the end of the course.





				Focus Area			



Taxation:

ACCT 751 - Advanced Personal Income Taxation (4)
This course provides a detailed review of the most prominent income, deduction, and credit issues affecting individuals, particularly those affecting high-income or net-worth individuals or those involved in certain specialized transactions. Topics discussed will include: detailed review of certain itemized deductions; the various loss limitation rule provisions, including the passive activity and at-risk loss limitation rules; the treatment of certain business income and expense items, including individual net operating losses; significant equity and property transactions; and the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Substantial emphasis will be placed on key compliance issues and tax planning opportunities for individuals, particularly those involved in investment, business, or other entrepreneurial activities. The class will include numerous components requiring students to apply the tax law to completing tax forms and in performing tax research related to issues in the course.
ACCT 752 - C-Corporation Taxation (4)
This course provides a comprehensive overview of the fundamental tax principles and consequences of corporate formation, operation, and liquidation to both corporations and their shareholders. Principle topics covered include: corporate formation and capital structure, including the treatment and utilization of debt and the application of Section 351; the taxation of corporate operations, including prominent property transactions, tax incentives and credits, and significant deductions; determination of earnings and profits; the tax treatment of distributions or other payments to shareholders and/or corporate officers; stock redemptions; and corporate liquidations and corporate reorganizations, including mergers, acquisitions, and divisive reorganizations.
ACCT 753 - Pass-Through Entity Taxation (4)
This course covers pass-through entities (partnerships and S-corporations), exempt entities, and family tax planning issues. Partnership topics include partnership formation, operation and basis, distributions, transfer of interests, and terminations. S-corporation taxation focuses on S-Corporation status, operational rules (including taxable income), allocation of income/loss, distributions to shareholders, and basis. Exempt entities are examined including types and characteristics, excise taxes, unrelated business income tax, and reporting requirements. Lastly, the course addresses issues relevant to family tax planning including federal gift and estate taxes, valuation, and income tax concepts. Attention will also be given to practical tax applications including key compliance, reporting issues, and tax planning opportunities.
ACCT 755 - Federal Tax Practice & Procedure (4)
In this course, students are introduced to the responsibilities of practitioners dealing with the Internal Revenue Service. It includes a comprehensive overview of the many aspects of dealing with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in tax matters.  Students will gain a full understanding of the organization of the IRS.  The major topics addressed in the course are ethical responsibilities, tax examinations by the IRS, audit procedures, the authority of the IRS, assessment procedures, statute of limitations, interest and penalties, the appeals process, the collection process, claims for refund and private letter rulings.


																					OR																			
Financial Operations:

ACCT 731 - Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (4)
A study of the enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems used by organizations to integrate information flow through a wide variety of disparate functions. This course involves analyzing how an ERP system works, examining the advantages and risks of ERP systems, and evaluating ERP system implementation strategies. Case analysis is emphasized.
ACCT 732 - Forensic Accounting (4)
A study of the investigative and analytical skills used in preventing, discovering, and resolving financial irregularities in a manner that meets the standards required by applicable laws and/or regulations. The course begins with an examination of the legal fundamentals of forensic accounting followed by an analysis of the key tools and techniques used by forensic accountants. This foundational background is then used in the analysis of common forensic accounting applications. Case analysis is emphasized.
ACCT 733 - Advanced Auditing and Data Analytics (4)
A study of auditing issues from case studies and application of data mining techniques in solving audit issues. Key area of concentration with case studies include client acceptance, understanding client business, audit risk assessment, materiality, fraud considerations, internal control objectives and deficiencies, auditing business processes and related accounts, and professional and ethical responsibilities. Key areas of focus with data mining techniques include application with ACL software tables, filters, and commands; audit planning; test of transactions and test of balances. Students will also explore the use of ACL software for forensic auditing and management reports.
ACCT 734 - Enterprise Risk Analysis & Management (4)
A study of the identification, analysis, measurement, management of operational and financial risk within an organization. Key areas of focus include a historical perspective of risk, the implementation of a risk management program, allocation of capital, and measurement of performance.





				Corequisites			




Complete one of the following: 
ACCT 215 - Financial Accounting (4)
This course is an introduction to accounting, emphasizing how general-purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course examines major elements of the statements such as cash, receivables, inventory, long-lived assets, depreciation, time value of money, payroll, bonds, and other liabilities and stocks. Concepts of this course are applied to ACCT 225 (Managerial Accounting). Students are advised to avoid any time lapse between these two courses.


ACCT 225 - Managerial Accounting (4)
The study of management accounting for internal reporting and decision-making. The course introduces a business-management approach to the development and use of accounting information. Major topics include cost behavior, cost analysis, profit planning and control measures. Accounting for decentralized operations, capital budgeting decisions, and ethical challenges in managerial accounting are also covered.


																					OR																			
OR

ACCT 729 - Financial & Managerial Accounting (4)
Effective leadership in today's complex and highly regulated business environment demands more than a working knowledge of basic accounting practices. Managers must fully grasp sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts and be able to apply them with ease in handling day-to-day responsibilities. Managers must also be well versed in the intricacies of corporate governance and asset protection. In this course, students will develop a clear understanding of these critical functions and issues. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting, including professional structure, the interrelationships of financial statements, and multiple forms of financial analysis. Additionally, the functional aspects of managerial accounting will be covered, including planning, decision making, and performance evaluation.



																					AND																			

Complete one of the following: 
ACCT 310 - Intermediate Accounting I (4)
Intermediate Accounting I is the first of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, the conceptual framework, development of generally accepted accounting principles, and applications are stressed. Topics include the income statement, statement of cash flows and, the balance sheet, specifically the asset accounts.


ACCT 320 - Intermediate Accounting II (4)
This course is the second of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, concepts, and applications are stressed. Topics include time value of money, current and non-current liabilities, leases, deferred taxes, retirement benefits, stockholders' equity, earnings per share, accounting changes and errors, and the statement of cash flows. 


																					OR																			
OR

ACCT 500 - Intermediate Accounting (4)
This course covers how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course covers the conceptual framework, development of generally accepted accounting principles, and applications are stressed. Topics include the income statement, the statement of cash flows and the balance sheet.



																					AND																			


ACCT 470 - Auditing (4)
A study of the planning, evidence gathering, internal control review, sampling, and application of procedures used to audit assets, liabilities, equity and related income statement accounts of a profit-oriented enterprise. Includes an evaluation of the audit profession including professional standards, ethics and liability of CPAs. Also includes a student-prepared audit case for hands-on application of audit procedures. The reporting requirements for compilation and review services and a thorough study of the types of audit opinions will also be studied. In addition, an audit research paper is required.



																					AND																			


Complete the above courses or the equivalent from an accredited school. Prerequisites must be completed with a grade of C or better. ACCT 470 is only needed for students taking ACCT 733.












Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Advanced Accounting



Audit Specialist



Financial Accounting Specialist



Management Accounting Specialist





Learn More







  M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Corequisites
The Master of Science in Accounting program requires Financial Accounting (ACCT 215), Managerial Accounting (ACCT 225), Intermediate Accounting I (ACCT 310), Intermediate Accounting II (ACCT 320), and Auditing (ACCT 470), or the equivalent from an accredited school. Corequisites must be completed with a grade of C or better.




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Science in Accounting students must earn at least 18 of the 30 required credits at Franklin University.Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees.Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the M.S. Accounting matrix.




Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Chris Barrett
Crowe Horwath LLP
Managing Partner, Tax


Kerri Bashore
Nationwide
Director, Corporate Compliance


Daniel Click
KPMG LLP
Managing Dir., Consulting


Will Dokko
KPMG LLP
Principal, Advisory Mkt. Leader


Richard Filler
Aetna
CFO Ohio/Kentucky Market


Charles Gossman
Ohio Health
VP of Finance for Central Market


Michael Kaizar
Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation
Forensic Accountant


Tara Kanavel
Nationwide
AVP, Accounting & Finance Solution


Samuel Kirk
Ohio Auditor of State
Special Prosecutor


Keith Martinez
Plante & Moran
Office Managing Partner


Angel Mumma
Columbus Zoo
SVP Finance


Gary Shamis
Winding River Consulting
Leader. Speaker. Author. Change Agent.


Brad Trimble
Columbus State Community College
Professor of Accounting


Cathy Vrenna
Vrenna Enterprises, LLC
Owner + CEO


Scott Wiley
The Ohio Society of CPAs
President + CEO











Free Accounting Career GuideGet insider tips on everything from how to get your foot in the door to preparing for C-level roles.Download Now >







Employment Outlook





10%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Accounting are expected to increase by 10%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Accountants and Auditors
$79,893
481,053
10%




Accountants and Auditors
									Median Salary: $79,893

									Job Postings: 481,053

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionAccountants and Auditors examine, analyze, and interpret accounting records to prepare financial statements, give advice, or audit and evaluate statements prepared by others. Install or advise on systems of recording costs or other financial and budgetary data. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsAccountants170,30835%Staff Accountants93,80620%Tax Accountants31,4037%Internal Auditors16,8224%Audit Managers22,2985%Cost Accountants16,2283%Project Accountants12,4903%Auditors15,3463%Accounting Associates13,2763%Property Accountants11,3312%Audit Associates14,7243%Certified Public Accountants17,6204%Corporate Accountants5,9201%Accountants/Bookkeepers8,3952%Financial Accountants5,6031%Revenue Accountants3,8521%Internal Audit Managers6,1581%General Ledger Accountants5,5481%Payroll Accountants5,4411%Staff Auditors4,4841%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsAccounting278,55588%Auditing184,69858%Financial Statements142,67645%Finance137,28043%Generally Accepted Accounting Principles102,19432%General Ledger74,40524%Accounts Payable63,07820%Internal Controls61,07819%Month-End Closing60,34119%Accounts Receivable55,55418%External Auditing52,74617%Account Reconciliation51,89516%Balance Sheet50,97016%Invoicing50,81016%Reconciliation49,71416%Public Accounting45,79414%Financial Analysis40,13313%Internal Auditing39,22412%Accounting Software34,55211%Fixed Asset31,80410%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryAccounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services25%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals3%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services2%Other58% 
Tax Examiners and Collectors, and Revenue Agents
$58,531
17,258
5%




Tax Examiners and Collectors, and Revenue Agents
									Median Salary: $58,531

									Job Postings: 17,258

									Projected Growth: 5%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionTax Examiners and Collectors, and Revenue Agents determine tax liability or collect taxes from individuals or business firms according to prescribed laws and regulations.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsTax Analysts6,67239%Indirect Tax Analysts1,2647%Tax Examiners7544%Internal Revenue Agents6584%Revenue Specialists9395%Tax Reviewers6724%Revenue Agents4353%Revenue Officers3692%Sales Tax Analysts3922%Tax Examining Technicians3582%Property Tax Analysts5293%Income Tax Analysts3442%Enrolled Agents2,41714%Tax Technicians2912%Corporate Tax Analysts1921%Lead Tax Analysts2241%Sales and Use Tax Analysts2081%Federal Tax Analysts1511%Field Auditors2041%Insurance Premium Auditors1851%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsAccounting7,13464%Auditing4,73243%Finance4,23338%Tax Returns3,60332%Income Tax2,82525%Tax Laws2,76825%Corporate Tax2,12819%Tax Compliance2,05018%Tax Research2,04518%State Taxes1,89917%Financial Statements1,58314%Property Tax1,55314%Use Tax1,49013%Tax Preparation1,42213%Process Improvement1,41513%Public Accounting1,37512%Tax Provision1,31612%Tax Accounting1,29512%Tax Planning1,08510%Indirect Tax1,08010%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian44%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals37%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals19%Other0% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Accounting Taxation Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Management Control Systems 

			



Benchmark key metrics against similar organizations to determine gaps and ensure best-in-class performance
Define measurable organizational metrics, aligning managerial efforts with goals to increase employee and management motivation
Assist in creating balanced scorecards to recognize financial and nonfinancial performance measures
Design effective management accounting control systems to monitor established metrics and key performance indicators (KPIs)
Ensure managers and employees understand specific actions required to achieve organizational goals, providing regular reports to help gauge effectiveness
Apply “responsibility accounting” principles to define organizational units as cost, profit, or investment centers
Prepare income statements to assist in evaluating responsibility centers using contribution margin and controllable-cost concepts
Evaluate control procedures, recommending control alternatives in management control systems
Evaluate and design planning and budgeting systems
Assess performance measurement and incentive systems







			
  C-Corporation Taxation

			



Possess knowledge of accounting principles and practices as well as federal, state and local governmental partnership and corporation tax returns.
Identify deductions and reporting requirements as they relate to corporate operations or formation
Effectively communicate tax-related findings in several professional formats, including memoranda, client correspondence, and/or IRS filings or submissions
Analyze tax issues associated with corporate refinance and restructuring and consolidated returns
	 







			
  Personal Income Tax

			



Analyze prominent income, deduction, and credit issues affecting individual taxpayers
Identify solutions and opportunities related to the imposition of federal gift and estate taxes on individuals, trusts and estates
Formulate and review federal, state and local income tax returns for individuals, trusts and small businesses
	 







			
  Federal Tax Practice and Procedure

			



Develop and ensure all tax process control documentation, tax policies and procedures are maintained and updated per legal requirements and firm standards
Manage firm partner S corporations including formation, registrations, bank reconciliations, GL accounting, and annual preparation of S corporation federal and state K-1s and tax returns
Ensure compliance with internal policy, standards and procedures related to tax accounting.
	 







			
  Pass Through Entity Taxation 

			



Conduct research and identify opportunities associated with the operation of pass-through tax entities, including the pass-through of deductions and credits
Understand schedules of tax forms, entity type setup, formation and dissolution, retirement plan options, foreign entity reporting, section 1031 exchanges, basic foreign/multistate returns and specialized tax credits. 
Manage firm partner S corporations including formation, registrations, bank reconciliations, GL accounting, and annual preparation of S corporation federal and state K-1s and tax returns
Direct all aspects of the tax planning, preparation and review process for all tax engagements with a concentration on partnership and other pass-through tax engagements.









  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.














  M.S. in Accounting Taxation Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)






		What can you do with a M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


With an M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation, you’ll gain the educational background and framework needed to seek professional certification, such as certified public accountant (CPA), certified management accountant (CMA), certified internal auditor (CIA) or certified fraud examiner (CFE) while preparing you to advance your career in public accounting, private industry or government.




		Why get a M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


With an M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation, you will be equipped to: identify tax issues and the questions that must be asked to resolve those tax issues; prepare tax returns containing advanced tax issues, as well as applying tax knowledge to identify tax planning opportunities; and assist taxpayers in dealing with the IRS in examinations, collections, rulings, etc.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation is a 17-month, 100% online program that is accredited by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE). In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners to decipher the numbers and communicate your findings with confidence and clarity.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree in as few as 17 months.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Can You Get an Accounting Master’s Without a Bachelor’s in Accounting?



How Hard is the CPA Exam? Sorting Fact from Fiction



Accounting Career Paths: How to Choose Which Is Right For You



CPA vs. Accountant: Answering 5 Questions For Future Accounting Professionals



Master’s in Accounting vs. CPA: Differences & Benefits You Need To Know










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog