URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/associates/health-services
Associate Degree in Health Science | Online Health Sciences AS



















A.S. Health Services
 

  64Credit Hours63%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Transfer ToolRequest InfoApply Today Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Associate Degrees
                /  
                                              Health Services
                          

  Prioritize your wellbeing with an associate degree in health services


Behind every illness, hurt, wound, or health problem is someone with a name, a face and a personal story.And while healthcare is a business, it also is a human endeavor, requiring caring and competent professionals helping people live longer, healthier lives.Earn an online associate degree in health services and learn how to promote wellness and address health issues through proven processes, best practice approaches, patient education and success-oriented interventions. 


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Broad Healthcare Exposure
Learn how to promote health and wellness in any industry.



  Real-World Practitioners
Benefit from the experience of healthcare professionals.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.










Program Overview




  Make a difference

With Franklin’s A.S. Health Services degree program, you’ll learn about a wide range of healthcare topics from disease prevention, to public health, to health and wellness, with a special emphasis on human connection and interaction.You’ll build an in-demand skillset that includes helping patients understand and manage chronic illness, promoting healthy living and wellness management, and supporting community health education. Plus, you’ll collaborate with clinical staff and others to assess gaps in care or coverage, address health risks, and coordinate care.When you earn your degree in health sciences at Franklin, you’ll learn from industry-leading healthcare practitioners who practice in the real world what they teach in the classroom. Earn your degree from a university built for busy adultsEarn your degree on your terms by taking classes 100% online. Accredited and nonprofit, Franklin was built from the ground-up to satisfy the needs of adult learners. Our seamless transfer process and team of academic advisors will help ease your transition to becoming a student, while our flexible course schedules help to balance your education with work, family and life. Get started on your future today.Read more >






  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value




Choose Franklin's A.S. Health Services and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Keep the Credit You've Earned


40
MAX TRANSFER HOURS

On average, students transfer in 2/3 of the credits required.







Full-Time, One-Class-at-a-Time




Focus on one 6-week class at a time and maintain full-time status by taking 3 courses per term.


80% of the program can be completed by taking six-week course, one class at a time

×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.







$23,880
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×







Curriculum & Course Descriptions



				64 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.




								Science							



SCIE 244 - Foundations of Anatomy & Physiology (4)
This course is designed for students interested in the allied healthcare professions.  The course focuses on the fundamental concepts of anatomy and physiology that are necessary to be successful in any allied healthcare program.  This course can be used to fulfill the general education science with a lab requirement, however, it is not recommended for students outside the allied health professions.


SCIE 254 - Health & Human Disease (4)
This course is designed for students pursuing allied health professions and provides an overview of human health and disease processes. Students will learn about common diseases and how they affect human health at cellular, organ, and systemic levels. Emphasis will be placed on the body as a system and how disease impacts the human body as a whole. The course focuses on the fundamental concepts of health and human disease that are necessary to be successful in any allied healthcare program.  The pre-requisite for SCIE 254 is successful completion (a C or better) in SCIE 244.




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							



PSYC 110 - General Psychology (4)
This course is a survey of the various fields of study comprising modern scientific psychology. We will examine the theories, research findings, and applications in each of the major areas of psychology, with the goal of providing students with practical information they can apply to their personal and professional lives. The topic areas covered in the course include learning and memory, motivation and emotion, human development, theories of personality, psychopathology, and social behavior.


SOCL 110 - Introduction to Sociology (4)
Sociology is the scientific study of group behavior - whether the groups are dyads, small groups, associations, bureaucracies, societies, publics, aggregates, social movements, or mobs, etc. This introductory course introduces the student to sociological principles and theoretical perspectives that facilitate understanding the norms, values, structure, and process of the various types of groups into which people organize. The course focuses on applying the scientific method to studying social problems (e.g. poverty, crime, sexism, and racism) and basic institutions (i.e. family, government, economy, religion, education). Students will develop their "sociological imagination" as a way of understanding what their lives are and can be in relation to the larger social forces at work in local, national, and international environments.




								Arts & Humanities							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.





				Major Area Required			




HIM 150 - Medical Terminology (2)
This course will introduce the foundations of medical terminology nomenclature and use. Emphasis will be on the fundamentals of prefix, word root, and suffix linkages to build a broad medical vocabulary.


PUBH 201 - Introduction to Public Health (4)
This course provides a basic introduction to public health concepts and practice by examining the philosophy, purpose, history, organization, functions, tools, activities and results of public health practice at the national, state, and community levels. The course also examines public health occupations and careers. Case studies and a variety of practice-related exercises serve as a basis for learner participation in practical public health problem-solving simulations.


PUBH 250 - Health Behavior (4)
This course will provide students with an overview of how the social and behavioral sciences contribute to primary prevention in the rapidly expanding field of health behavior. Emphasis will be placed on theory-driven approaches that are supported by empirical investigations. Students will acquire a working knowledge of foundational theories used in public health practice as well as the ability to measure key theoretical constructs.


HCM 210 - Healthcare Foundations (2)
This course will provide fundamental information regarding health, healthcare, and the healthcare delivery system. Students will become familiar with the various types of healthcare organizations, stakeholders, and healthcare issues in order to shape their understanding of the different components of the healthcare delivery system. Through the exploration of health information, students will discuss and analyze the role healthcare professions play within healthcare.


ENG 220 - Research Writing: Exploring Professional Identities (4)
This is an intermediate course focusing on the composition of research papers. Students in this course prepare to be active participants in professional discourse communities by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their own fields of study and work. By calling attention to the conventions of disciplinary writing, the course also prepares students for upper-division college writing and the special conventions of advanced academic discourse. Course activities include three extended research papers, semi-formal writing addressing interdisciplinary communication, and readings fostering critical engagement with disciplinary conversations.





				Major Electives			




At least 12 credits from the following courses:
PUBH 300 - Health Education and Promotion Concepts  (4)
Students taking this course will learn effective communication skills to positively influence the norms and behaviors of both individuals and communities.  Common themes are health education methods, including theories and models, promoting multicultural diversity, social marketing concepts, and health communication strategies.
PUBH 310 - Health Program Planning  (4)
This course encompasses the important steps in planning an effective health program; including planning frameworks, needs assessment, and implementation steps.  Students will incorporate health behavior theories, health determinants, and behaviors to effectively strategize effective programs to improve health of a population.
PUBH 400 - Health Program Evaluation  (4)
This course will lead students through the various types of health program implementation and evaluation strategies, including quality, fidelity, and desired effect. Concepts will include various theories and approaches, as well as qualitative and quantitative assessment methods to determine program success.
COMM 355 - Introduction to Grant Writing for Non-Profits  (4)
In today's competitive and budget-conscious workplace, we need to be as efficient and cost effective as possible. For many organizations, that means pursuing and getting external funding in the form of grants.

Nonprofits of all sizes must now be continually working on grants?searching for and identifying potential funding sources/grants, completing both new grants and re-applying for grants, as well as reporting to funders on grants received. Because of the importance and complexity of grants, all full-time and many part-time nonprofit employees are involved in supporting these activities.

This course focuses on the essential skills of the grant-writing process and how to write a grant. There are many types of grants and funding arrangements, and in this course we will address nonprofit, project-based grants.

Each student will write a grant proposal using information and resources provided as a starting point. Grant writing is typically a collaborative process, but it is important for each student to learn all the steps of putting a grant together; therefore, each student will work on his or her own project. Students are encouraged to share their proposals with a nonprofit and offer to work on a "real" proposal with them after completing the course; however, students are not to submit any proposal on their own to any funder. The work completed in this course is for academic purposes and strictly for the learning experience of the student. If a proposal is re-crafted in collaboration with an established nonprofit and submitted to a funder, that is wonderful, but not a requirement or expectation of the course.

This course will enable students to recognize when a grant might be appropriate as a source of funds for a nonprofit organization or project, identify and understand nonprofit status, adhere to conventions and standards associated with successful grant applications, locate grant opportunities, analyze grant requirements, prepare metrics for success, and develop a written grant proposal. This course will provide an opportunity for students to extend and apply their communication skills. Students pursuing this course will also leverage interdisciplinary insights to solve a real-world problem.
ACCT 202 - Financial/Managerial Acct for Non-Majors  (4)
This course is an introduction to financial and managerial accounting.  It is designed for non-accounting majors.  Financial accounting emphasizes how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business's performance and position for users external to management.  It emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information. The course also examines the major elements of the financial statements. The managerial accounting portion of the course studies internal reporting and decision-making. The course assists those who wish to learn "what the numbers mean" in a clear, concise and conceptual manner without focusing on the mechanical aspects of the accounting process.
ACCT 215 - Financial Accounting  (4)
This course is an introduction to accounting, emphasizing how general-purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course examines major elements of the statements such as cash, receivables, inventory, long-lived assets, depreciation, time value of money, payroll, bonds, and other liabilities and stocks. Concepts of this course are applied to ACCT 225 (Managerial Accounting). Students are advised to avoid any time lapse between these two courses.
SEMT 240 - Disaster Planning & Response  (4)
In planning for catastrophic disasters using strategic protocols and tools are needed for incorporating environmental and social into efficient responses. The importance for understanding the history of previous catastrophic events, and learning from those responses. What worked well? What didn?t? Will better prepare us for the future challenges as they arise.

Students will explore the nuances of planning for and respond to catastrophic disasters. The course will discuss domestic and international approaches to planning and responding to such disasters. The Emergency Manager will spend most of their time in the field planning for critical incidents and disasters and understanding the key components to a good plan that involves many agencies at all levels of government and at different stages of the event is essential. Students will delve into the logistics of mass care, mass evacuations, and critical infrastructure damage.
SOCL 355 - Community Mental Health  (4)
This course will provide students with a comprehensive overview of community mental health. This includes an exploration of the history, financing, and delivery of mental health services. Mental health problems will be examined across the lifespan. The course will critically examine how services are conceived, funded, provided, and evaluated. Factors contributing to mental health problems and approaches to preventing mental illness are also explored. Students will learn about model programs and evidence-based practices that are currently being promoted in Ohio and elsewhere. 


																					AND																			

Students can transfer in up to 12 credit hours from short-term certificates as technical credit to fulfil this requirement.


																					AND																			

Students may select either ACCT 202 or ACCT 215.





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Pharmacy Technician





Learn More







  A.S. Health Services Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			




Identify common terminology, tools, and practices used In health and wellness domains
Describe the potential risks to human wellness from personal behavior, environment, and social factors
Identify the theories of human behavior within societal groups
Apply processes, approaches, and Interventions used In addressing population health Issues






 
A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. It shows where each outcome is Introduced (I), Reinforced (R), and Assessed (A) within the program's curriculum.



 
1
2
3
4


HIM 150
I
 
 
 


SCIE 244
R
 
 
 


SCIE 254
R
I
 
 


PUBH 201
A
A
 
A


SOCL 110
 
 
I
 


ANTH 215
 
 
A
 











			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.










Employment Outlook





12%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Healthcare are expected to increase by 12%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Health Education Specialists
$62,858
31,811
11%




Health Education Specialists
									Median Salary: $62,858

									Job Postings: 31,811

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionHealth Education Specialists provide and manage health education programs that help individuals, families, and their communities maximize and maintain healthy lifestyles. Use data to identify community needs prior to planning, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating programs designed to encourage healthy lifestyles, policies, and environments. May link health systems, health providers, insurers, and patients to address individual and population health needs. May serve as resource to assist individuals, other health professionals, or the community, and may administer fiscal resources for health education programs. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsHealth Educators4,23413%Lactation Consultants5,03316%Health Coaches3,60811%CPR and First Aid Instructors2,4458%Diabetes Educators2,4918%CPR Instructors1,6175%Fitness Coaches1,6115%Wellness Specialists1,2224%Nutrition Educators1,3084%Breastfeeding Peer Counselors8753%Community Health Educators1,1134%Wellness Representatives8563%Public Health Educators7572%Health Program Representatives6152%Health Promotion Specialists7923%Wellness Attendants6472%Behavioral Health Coaches7833%Coding Educators5012%Certified Diabetes Educators9613%Nutritional Health Coaches3421%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsHealth Education5,36816%Nursing4,58713%Public Health3,65311%Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)2,9309%Health And Wellness Coaching2,8828%Health Promotion2,8658%Diabetes Mellitus2,7488%Community Health2,7168%Social Work2,4897%Marketing2,3487%Mental Health2,3167%Behavioral Health2,2877%Patient Education And Counseling2,0346%Psychology2,0206%Bilingual (Spanish/English)1,8916%Weight Management1,6265%Motivational Interviewing1,4554%Nutrition Education1,4424%Selling Techniques1,4374%Chronic Diseases1,4164%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryGeneral Medical and Surgical Hospitals13%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals12%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals9%Federal Government, Civilian8%Outpatient Care Centers8%Individual and Family Services8%Other43% 
Athletic Trainers
$57,930
55,446
16%




Athletic Trainers
									Median Salary: $57,930

									Job Postings: 55,446

									Projected Growth: 16%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionAthletic Trainers evaluate and treat musculoskeletal injuries or illnesses. Provide preventive, therapeutic, emergency, and rehabilitative care. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsAthletic Trainers28,16851%Certified Athletic Trainers13,34224%Assistant Athletic Trainers4,4078%Outreach Athletic Trainers2,6125%Head Athletic Trainers1,0262%Clinical Athletic Trainers1,4703%On-Site Industrial Athletic Trainers2,2594%Licensed Athletic Trainers4211%Injury Prevention Specialists3091%Athletic Trainers Physician Extender2901%Critical Care Transport Registered Nurses720%Athletic Specialists1230%Athletic Equipment Managers1730%Sports Performance Trainers1380%Athletic Training Assistants1070%Graduate Assistant Athletic Trainers800%Athletic Assistants770%Sports Performance Specialists1680%Sports Medicine Assistants940%Athletic Training Fellows1100%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsAthletic Training14,30483%Rehabilitation9,01452%Sports Medicine6,70639%Injury Prevention3,86222%Sports Injuries3,72922%Orthopedics2,79216%Physical Therapy2,46314%Medical Records2,43514%Treatment Planning2,27313%Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)2,22213%Emergency Medicine2,02512%Strength Training And Conditioning1,3438%Triage1,2147%Patient Education And Counseling1,0976%Electronic Medical Record1,0836%Urgent Care1,0816%Vital Signs1,0626%Splinting1,0506%Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)1,0206%Kinesiology1,0166%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryOffices of Physicians16%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools15%Education and Hospitals (State Government)14%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)14%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals12%Offices of Other Health Practitioners12%Other17% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.

















Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog