URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/associate/business-administration/general
Associate’s in Business Administration Online | Franklin.edu



















A.S. Business Administration
 

  64Credit Hours69%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Transfer ToolRequest InfoApply Today Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Associate Degrees
                /  
                                              Business Administration
                /  
                                              A.S. Business Administration
                          

  Earn your associate degree in business administration


The business of business is complicated. It requires lots of resources and people, activities and directives, goal setting, and policy enforcement -- all of it disparate without people who can evaluate the planning, organizing, leading, and controlling of it. Enter the business administration professional. From accounting to marketing to IT, organizations need people who can coordinate the efforts of all these different functions and integrate them into the organization’s overall goals and plans.Earn a two-year associate degree in business administration and get on the fast track to helping streamline the way companies work to meet productivity objectives and performance goals.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site

Columbus
On site offerings are limited and courses in this program will need to be taken online.









  Holistic Perspective
Acquire broad business skills to succeed in any industry.



  Personalize Your Major
Choose elective courses that align with your interests.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced business professionals.



  Finish Faster
Transfer up to 44 hours of previously earned credit.



  Convenient Classes
Take 100% online courses that fit your life.










Program Overview




  Start a career with endless possibilities

From one-person offices to multi-national powerhouses, businesses need decision-making managers who can plan, organize and lead. Perhaps that’s why business administration is the most popular field of study today.Business administration is a broad-based, wide-open career path that incorporates all the key business disciplines, including management, operations, marketing and accounting.With Franklin University's transfer-friendly A.S. Business Administration, you'll develop an understanding of the functional roles and processes of business managers, as well as develop much-needed skills, including creating competitive advantage, tracking financial position and furthering corporate responsibility. With classes available online, on-campus or a combination of both, you choose the schedule that fits your busy lifestyle. You can complete your associate degree with just 64 credit hours. Finish even faster by transferring in up to 44 previously earned credits toward your degree.In addition to core business classes, you can choose from a variety of electives, including qualitative and quantitative decision-making, organizational communication, global finance and applied research methods. Picking your electives lets you study subjects that are of interest to you, relevant to your future career and give you a competitive advantage in the workplace -- both in hiring and in advancement opportunity.And, besides kickstarting your business career, an associate degree in business administration from Franklin can pave the way toward earning your bachelor’s degree in business administration, too.Earn your degree from a university built for busy adultsEarn your degree on your terms by taking classes 100% online. Accredited and nonprofit, Franklin was built from the ground-up to satisfy the needs of adult learners. Our seamless transfer process and team of academic advisors will help ease your transition to becoming a student, while our flexible course schedules help to balance your education with work, family and life. Get started on your future today.Read more >






  Future Start Date




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value




Choose Franklin's A.S. Business Administration and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget.  







Keep the Credit You've Earned


33
AVG TRANSFER HOURS

On average, students transfer in 2/3 of the credits required.






Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional 
organization partnership.








$25,472
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Full-Time, One-Class-at-a-Time




Focus on one 6-week class at a time and maintain full-time status by taking 3 courses per term.






Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×







Curriculum & Course Descriptions



				64 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							



ECON 220 - Introduction to Macroeconomics (4)
An introduction to economic theory involving the basic underlying causes and principles of the operation of an economic system. Emphasis is placed on studying the economy as a whole. Issues of inflation, unemployment, taxation, business cycles and growth are discussed in the context of the global economic system.


																					AND																			


											2 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Anthropology, Geography, History, Political Science, Psychology, or Sociology disciplines.
										




								Arts & Humanities							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.


																					AND																			


											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any General Education course at the 100 or 200 level
										





				Major Foundational			




BSAD 220 - Business Law (4)
A study of the everyday legal problems encountered in business with emphasis on the areas of legal procedure, contracts, agency, employment law, business organizations and torts, with cases relating to these and other areas.


MGMT 312 - Principles of Management (4)
This course explores the basic concepts and processes of management. Students will explore the functional roles and processes of planning, leading, organizing, and controlling comprising the manager role. Students develop skills related to the manager function that are required in today's competitive environment.


																					AND																			

ACCT 202 - Financial/Managerial Acct for Non-Majors (4)
This course is an introduction to financial and managerial accounting.  It is designed for non-accounting majors.  Financial accounting emphasizes how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business's performance and position for users external to management.  It emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information. The course also examines the major elements of the financial statements. The managerial accounting portion of the course studies internal reporting and decision-making. The course assists those who wish to learn "what the numbers mean" in a clear, concise and conceptual manner without focusing on the mechanical aspects of the accounting process.
OR ACCT 215 - Financial Accounting (4)
This course is an introduction to accounting, emphasizing how general-purpose financial statements communicate information about the business corporation's performance and position for users external to management. Approximately one third of the course emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information and includes exposure to recording transactions, adjusting balances and preparing financial statements for service and merchandise firms according to established rules and procedures. The balance of the course examines major elements of the statements such as cash, receivables, inventory, long-lived assets, depreciation, time value of money, payroll, bonds, and other liabilities and stocks. Concepts of this course are applied to ACCT 225 (Managerial Accounting). Students are advised to avoid any time lapse between these two courses.





				Major Area Required			




At least 12 credits from the following courses:
ACCT 225 - Managerial Accounting  (4)
The study of management accounting for internal reporting and decision-making. The course introduces a business-management approach to the development and use of accounting information. Major topics include cost behavior, cost analysis, profit planning and control measures. Accounting for decentralized operations, capital budgeting decisions, and ethical challenges in managerial accounting are also covered.
ACCT 310 - Intermediate Accounting I  (4)
Intermediate Accounting I is the first of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, the conceptual framework, development of generally accepted accounting principles, and applications are stressed. Topics include the income statement, statement of cash flows and, the balance sheet, specifically the asset accounts.
ACCT 320 - Intermediate Accounting II  (4)
This course is the second of two in-depth financial accounting courses. Theory, concepts, and applications are stressed. Topics include time value of money, current and non-current liabilities, leases, deferred taxes, retirement benefits, stockholders' equity, earnings per share, accounting changes and errors, and the statement of cash flows. 
ACCT 330 - Cost Management  (4)
This course is an in-depth study of cost accounting focusing on its role in internal reporting and the resulting decision-making processes. Students will evaluate the foundation, ethics and basic costing systems employed in the management accounting profession; analyze budgeting, cost behavior, pricing and profitability concepts and principles; determine how cost allocations, product quality, and investment decisions are applied by management accountants; determine how current trends in various industries impact cost accounting; and demonstrate knowledge that is in accordance with the educational requirements for the Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exam.
ACCT 390 - Federal Income Tax I  (4)
An introduction to the federal income tax structure with emphasis on the individual taxpayer, including employee, sole proprietor and investor. This course also provides exposure to basic concepts that apply equally, or with slight modification, to taxpayers other than individuals. Major topics include filing status, exemptions, excludable and includable income, business and non-business deductions, disallowances, technical tax research, and computer problem applications.
ACCT 425 - Accounting Information Systems  (4)
This course creates a framework for accounting information systems by combining knowledge about business as it relates to information systems, information technology, and accounting. Students will examine the REA enterprise ontology as it relates to databases which can be used to store and retrieve information for decision-making within an organization. Students learn that in the competitive organizations of today, and tomorrow, accountants cannot simply prepare and report information; they must take a more active role in understanding and creating systems and processes that impact the organization's bottom line.
AMGT 440 - Project and Team Management  (4)
The focus of this course is on the effective management of projects and the teams responsible for project implementation. This course covers the fundamental theory and practice of project management in an organizational setting. Students learn to apply knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques necessary for effective functioning in a project environment. The course will also provide insights into the management processes related to project team development as well as the project team lifecycle and its dynamics. Accordingly, activities and assignments in this course are designed in alignment with the Project Management Institute?s PMBOK? Guide to help students understand the nature of successful project planning and execution, as well as project team formation and management.  Completion of this course can be used as one of the qualifications needed to apply for the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification exam (35 hours of project management education/training).  
AMGT 450 - Organizational Supervision  (4)
This course is designed to provide the framework and foundation of what it takes to be a first line manager or supervisor. Students will be introduced to the many skills required of a supervisor such as planning and controlling activities to accomplish organizational goals. Areas such as communication, ethical decision-making, conflict management, interpersonal relations and employee development will be explored.
BSAD 320 - Quant & Qual Methods for Decision Making  (4)
This course focuses on the development of individual and team decision-making and problem solving skills. Real world domestic and global issues will be analyzed, diagnosed, and evaluated through the application of a variety of quantitative and qualitative tools and techniques used to arrive at effective decisions and solutions.
BSAD 410 - Business Administration Internship  (1-4)
This course provides qualified students with an opportunity to receive academic credit for supervised professional training and experience in an actual work environment. This Internship is an ongoing seminar between the student, the faculty member and the employment supervisor. It involves an Internship Application and Learning Agreement, periodic meetings with the faculty representative, professional experience at a level equivalent to other senior-level courses and submission of material as established in the Internship Application and Learning Agreement. Participation cannot be guaranteed for all applicants.
BSAD 460 - Business Ethics for Leaders  (4)
This course focuses on the application and evaluation of scholarly articles, case studies, and real-life ethical dilemmas using an ethical decision-making model. Students will evaluate personal value systems; individual, leadership driven, organizational, and community ethical issues; and the social responsibilities of global organizations. The course will culminate in an in-depth analysis of a real-life ethical dilemma based on an authentic organization.
BSAD 476 - Global Business Issues  (4)
This course focuses on global economic integration and emerging market economies and the effects these trends have on both service and manufacturing industries in the short- and long-term. Other global business issues will include: the European Union (EU), North American Free Trade Association (NAFTA), and the World Trade Organization (WTO); environmental considerations in business operations; the influences of the political and legal environment on markets; the strategies for business entry into a global market; and the development of leadership talent in a global setting.
BSAD 480 - Special Topics in Business Administration  (1-4)
A variable content classroom course in Business Administration in which students pursue topics or subjects of current interest that are not part of the regular curriculum. A specific course description will be published online in the Course Schedule for the trimester the course is offered.
BSAD 499 - Independent Studies in Business Administration  (1-4)
Independent studies courses allow students in good academic standing to pursue learning in areas not covered by the regular curriculum or to extend study in areas presently taught. Study is under faculty supervision and graded on either a Pass/No Credit or a letter grade basis. (See the "Independent Studies" section of the Academic Bulletin for more details.)
COMM 321 - Organizational Communication  (4)
The course examines the role of communication in organizations. Students will learn the major theories of organizational communication, identifying and defining primary concepts, and applying them to discussions of real-world situations. The role of technology, corporate culture, leadership, teamwork, ethics, and diversity in communication is examined. Effective communication in global organizations and critiques of organization communication systems and structures are also presented.
ECON 321 - Intermediate Microeconomics  (4)
Intermediate Microeconomics provides a further examination of profit maximizing strategies by firms and individuals. Evaluation of consumer behavior, firms- production decisions, and market power are at the core of the analysis. Special attention is given to the asymmetric information considerations, game theory, and externalities.
ECON 322 - Intermediate Macroeconomics  (4)
This course examines the differences between the economy in the short run and in the long run. A number of macroeconomic models are considered, and the results are used to conduct macroeconomic policy discussion on stabilization policies and government debt.
ECON 420 - Forecasting  (4)
This course provides a hands-on experience for creating working econometric models to forecast business activities, including revenues, costs, and profits. Trends, seasonal and cyclical fluctuations, as well as error term dynamics, are analyzed.
ENTR 395 - Foundations of Entrepreneurship  (4)
Foundations of Entrepreneurship is an introductory course that examines the theory, practice, and tools of entrepreneurship. Various entrepreneurship structures and how such structures result in different unique pathways to success are explored. Students will focus on the importance of developing an entrepreneurial mindset as they assess their individual values and determine their affinity for entrepreneurial thinking, while also reviewing the risks and rewards of entrepreneurial businesses in the context of their chosen entrepreneurial philosophy. Finally, students will identify and evaluate opportunities for new ventures, and consider a strategic approach for successful business plan development.
FINA 301 - Principles of Finance  (4)
This course is designed to survey the field of finance and provide the foundation for more advanced finance coursework. Topics include sources of business and financial information, financial statement analysis, the time value of money, the nature and measurement of risk, financial institutions, investments and corporate finance.
FINA 340 - Money, Banking, & Financial Markets  (4)
This course provides an overview of the financial system. The roles of money, financial intermediaries, financial markets, and central banks are discussed in the context of global economy.
FINA 403 - Advanced Financial Management  (4)
An introduction to advanced concepts and methods of financial management. Topics include risk and return, asset evaluation, capital budgeting, capital structure, business financial planning and working capital management.
FINA 405 - Investments  (4)
An examination of investment markets, transactions, planning and information. Topics include investment risk and return measures, debt and equity instruments, evaluation techniques, hybrid and derivative securities, mutual funds, real estate investments, tax planning and the investment process, and portfolio management.

 
FINA 450 - Global Finance  (4)
Global Finance is an examination of financial management in the global economy. Topics include international financial markets, exchange rates, interest rates and inflation, exchange rate risk management, working capital management, capital budgeting, country risk analysis, long-term financing, and global strategic planning.
FPLN 300 - Principles of Financial Planning  (4)
An introduction to personal financial planning. Topics include the financial planning process, money management and investments, insurance needs, income tax planning, retirement planning and estate planning. Cases are used to illustrate important planning concepts, techniques and issues.
FPLN 440 - Risk Management & Insurance Planning  (4)
An introduction to the techniques and issues of risk management and insurance for businesses and individuals. Topics include legal principles in risk and insurance, insurance contracts, personal property and liability risk, life and health risks, social insurance, insurance companies and product markets, insurance pricing, insurance taxation, government regulation of insurance, and professional ethics and market conduct.
HCM 300 - Healthcare Management  (4)
This course is designed to provide students with an overview of healthcare management principles and theories. It is a generally required course for any subsequent healthcare management courses. Through the examination of key healthcare concepts, students will acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to become an effective healthcare leader in diverse healthcare environments. Topics include healthcare leadership, management, communication, planning and decision making.
HCM 320 - Financial Management I  (4)
This course will provide students with a foundation in financial and managerial accounting. Students will explore concepts to enhance their financial knowledge, technical skills, and their ability to apply such skills in a working environment. Presented in this course are principles for making sound financial decisions and assessing healthcare organization?s financial performance.




HCM 442 - Legal Aspects of Healthcare Management  (4)
Understanding cultural competency, ethics, policy, and law is necessary for healthcare professionals in a continuously evolving healthcare system. This course will provide students with practical knowledge and methods for applying ethical, legal, and cultural decision-making frameworks to mitigate risks. Topics will include regulatory compliance, patient consent, privacy and confidentiality, and cultural competence.
HRM 300 - Human Resources Management  (4)
This course is an introduction to the human resources function and related elements and activities. The course outlines the roles and functions of members of the human resources department, as well as educating others outside human resources, in how their roles include human resources-related activities. The student will learn about the evolution in human resources management as we know it today. Emphasis is placed on the modern day importance of HRM and the new ?corporate view? of the function. Additionally, the student will be exposed to the view of HRM from the perception of both management and subordinate employees. The importance of maintaining fair and equitable compensation and benefit programs will be discussed. The student will be exposed to practical situations and problem solving regarding areas of employee counseling, discipline, and termination. Equal Employment Opportunity will be discussed in order for the student to understand its need, importance, and the legal issues surrounding it. Other critical areas of training and development, staffing, and strategy will also be explored.
HRM 301 - Staffing  (4)
This course examines all aspects of getting employees into organizations. Recruitment and selection are the foci. This course covers scientific and legal issues from a managerial perspective and examines the usefulness of various methods used in job analysis, testing and measurement, and internal and external market analysis. Legislation regarding EEO and affirmative action programs are discussed.
HRM 302 - Training & Development  (4)
This course covers the theories and techniques of training and development from strategic and operational perspectives. Emphasis is placed on employee needs assessment, program design, implementation and evaluation. Learning theories and long-term development for global competitiveness are discussed.
HRM 401 - Compensation & Benefits  (4)
This course is an in-depth examination of pay and benefit theories and practices. The course analyzes job evaluation techniques, salary surveys, individual and group performance-based pay, as well as insurance and pension plan administration.
HRM 402 - Employee & Labor Relations  (4)
This course evaluates the current environment of employee and labor relations. Students will compare and distinguish the differences between employee relations and labor relations environments. Topics such as handbooks versus contracts, employee discipline versus grievance procedures, and workplace compliance laws, such as ADA, FMLA, sexual harassment, and the Civil Rights Act are discussed.
HRM 420 - Principles of Organizational Development  (4)
This course provides students with an overview of the emergence and development of organizational development as a field, processes for diagnosis and intervention, and basic skills needed to facilitate individual, small group, and organizational change. The course will also cover key concepts in organizational transformation, organizational development in global settings, and future directions in the field.
MGMT 325 - Organizational Behavior  (4)
This course focuses on the organizational processes and theoretical constructs related to organizational behavior. The roles of leaders, followers, and teams, and their influence on the culture and performance of an organization are addressed through the analysis of key organizational behavior concepts and related cases. Topics will include: values, perception, attitudes, assumptions, learning, motivation, conflict, diversity, and change.
MGMT 425 - Organizational Change  (4)
This course analyzes the forces that drive organizations to change, examines impediments to change, and surveys a range of approaches for making organizational change more effective. Students will develop an understanding of change processes and develop practical skills for becoming an organization change agent.
MGMT 440 - Organizational Culture & Performance  (4)
This course focuses on the relationship between an organization's culture and its performance. The challenges and opportunities presented to both leaders and followers in adapting to and implementing organizational cultural change are addressed in this course. The impact culture has as a mediating factor between a leader's style and the effective performance of an organization is examined in this course.
MGMT 470 - Organizational Leadership  (4)
Leadership is the ability to influence people towards a goal. This course will focus on the key factors and theories in leadership. You will develop skills to navigate your organization and determine how effective leaders or followers influence and motivate others in their organization. Students will build a foundation upon which to build lifelong learning practices for leadership development using both theory and application.
MIS 200 - Management Information Systems  (4)
The purpose of this course is to provide the fundamentals associated with the management of information technology in a business enterprise. These fundamentals are business concepts in which the influence of information technology has caused change or brought about new concepts. Special emphasis will be placed on understanding the managerial issues that are relevant to the usage of computers. The student will be given problems isolating these issues and will be asked to propose solutions with alternatives.
MKTG 300 - Marketing  (4)
Theory, strategies and methods are foundational to the informed practice of marketing. Students investigate the importance of marketing to an organization or cause, the interrelationship of the difference phases of marketing, the marketing of goods versus services, analysis and identification of markets, pricing strategies and digital marketing tactics.
MKTG 320 - Advertising & Promotion  (4)
A study of fundamental principles and practices of advertising that emphasizes the development of a creative strategy and the decision-making process for the recommendation, implementation, and evaluation of a promotional campaign in support of the organization's strategy.
MKTG 330 - Consumer Behavior  (4)
Marketing activities ? advertising, product development, distribution, pricing, and strategy ? aim to influence consumers to buy our goods, engage our services, support our cause, or vote for our candidate. An understanding of the drivers of consumer behavior is essential for the successful development and sales of goods and services. If we understand consumer behavior, we can begin to predict consumer behavior under differing conditions. And if we can predict consumer behavior, we can modify conditions to influence that behavior. In this project-based course, you will apply consumer behavior concepts, principles, and theories - primarily derived from the social sciences fields - to influence the acquisition, consumption, and disposition of products, services, and ideas.
MKTG 332 - Marketing Research  (4)
Students develop an understanding of the theories and techniques of planning, conducting, analyzing and presenting market studies. Students will study different methodologies with emphasis on primary research including questionnaire design.
MKTG 340 - Digital Marketing  (4)
Students investigate and evaluate various digital marketing and communication strategies and tactics. An emphasis is placed on critical evaluation skills, as well as social media, search marketing, websites, email, and the evaluation of digital marketing initiatives. Students create a full digital marketing plan for a real-world company.
MKTG 430 - Customer Relationship Management  (4)
Students develop skills in planning, constructing, and organizing one-to-one marketing activities. Included in these activities are collaborative relationships between consumers and sellers that can be applied by both small and large organizations. New technologies in interactive marketing and in database creation and implementation will be studied.
MKTG 450 - International and Cross-cultural Marketing  (4)
International markets are becoming ever-more interconnected. Meanwhile, the US population is becoming more culturally diverse. In this course, you will explore the dynamics of global markets, culture, and sub-culture and gain practical insights into analyzing consumer behavior across diverse cultural contexts ? both foreign and domestic. You will assess adaptable marketing strategies, tailor communications to resonate with varied audiences and draft brand localization plans. This course will equip you with the essential skills needed to successfully navigate the complexities of international and cross-cultural marketing. 
OSCM 390 - Operations Management  (4)
This course instructs students on how manufacturing and service operations contribute to organizational strategy. Concepts such as productivity, economies of scale, vertical and horizontal integration, and push vs. pull will be explained. Implications of applying "Green" policies to materials and processes will be explained.
OSCM 440 - Quality Management  (4)
This course provides students with understanding and knowledge of the philosophies and methods used to improve effectiveness and efficiency of organizational processes. Quality concepts from Juran and Deming will be discussed along with more current quality concepts such as six-sigma, black-belt quality associates, and total quality management (TQM). In addition, issues applying quality concepts to global companies will be explained.
OSCM 450 - Supply Chain Management  (4)
This course will expose students to topics related to design and management of supply chains, from incoming raw materials to final product delivery. Course topics will include supply chain network design, facility planning, capacity planning, globalization and outsourcing, information technology, and global issues in supply chain management.
OSCM 455 - Transportation & Logistics Management  (4)
This course explores the transportation and logistics concepts within supply chains. Topics covered will include tools and techniques used in the design and operation of transportation and logistics systems and global issues in transportation and logistics management. In addition, "Quick Response" scenarios to handle transportation and logistics issues in the event of natural and non-natural disasters will be explained.
OSCM 458 - Purchasing & Inventory Management  (4)
This course will provide students with the concepts of purchasing and inventory management. Topics covered are purchasing and inventory planning processes, supplier selection, contract negotiations, "Green" policies, and procurement.
OSCM 491 - Integrated Project Management  (4)
This course will instruct the student to manage multiple organizations and projects. Concepts on how to deal with organizational obstacles, risk, and project development will be covered.
PBRL 325 - Public Relations  (4)
A course in the technique of establishing and maintaining public relations with an examination of the public relations functions of some of the large concerns. Exercises in practical application of public relations techniques are included.
PSYC 325 - Coaching in Organizations  (4)
This course is designed to introduce students to the use of coaching skills for improving the adjustment and performance of individuals in an organizational setting. Topics to be covered include: the scope of coaching practice, optimal practitioner characteristics, benefits for coaches, related organizational dynamics, and coaching interventions and resources. This course also includes an emphasis on experiential learning through coaching practice activities.
RMI 210 - Principle of Risk Management & Insurance  (4)
This course introduces students to the general concepts of risk identification and management, as well as how various products and methods, including insurance, can be used to manage the non-speculative risks of individuals and businesses. Emphasis will be placed on analyzing various types of insurance products, including life, health, property, and liability insurance contracts, and how the insurance industry develops, manages, markets, and underwrites such contracts in a complex economic and regulatory environment.
RMI 310 - Insurance Company Operations  (4)
This course analyzes insurer operations and, in particular, the methods and bases for their operational decisions, including pricing, distribution, marketing, underwriting, reinsurance, claims handling, and loss limitation or control. Consideration will also be given to the impact of outside influences on insurer operations, including industry regulation and market/economic influences.
RMI 330 - Life & Health Insurance  (4)
This course analyzes the uses of individual and group life and health insurance to manage the financial risks that illness, incapacity, and death pose to individuals and organizations. It includes a review of various health and life insurance products and their utility in addressing specific needs and situations, as well as the underwriting and operational mechanisms that insurers employ in providing such products.
RMI 420 - Commercial Lines Property & Casualty Insurance  (4)
This course focuses on the core principles underlying and potential applications for commercial lines property and casualty insurance as a risk management tool. Emphasis is placed on analyzing various types of property and casualty insurance products for businesses, contracts involved in such products, and considerations of both the insurer and the insured in identifying suitable P & C insurance products for mitigating specific business risks.
RMI 440 - Employee Benefits & Retirement Planning  (4)
This course surveys the nature and operation of the various types and components of employer-sponsored benefit plans, as well as the public welfare plans meant to provide support and key services to individuals. Emphasis will be placed on plan design, administration, funding, and regulations and the ability to analyze and develop programs that maximize employee and organizational benefit while minimizing cost.
SOCL 335 - Applied Research Methods  (4)
Applied Research Methods introduces students to the basic research designs and data collection techniques involved in human subjects? research common to social research environments. After completion of this course, the student should know the basics of social research ethics, the steps of the research process, the strengths and weaknesses of selected types of qualitative and quantitative research strategies, issues of selecting or creating and refining instruments of measurement, how to properly select an appropriate sample of subjects, and how to interpret selected statistical measures utilized in hypothesis testing.
FRAC 341 - Fraud Examination  (4)
This course provides an overview of the behavioral research associated with occupational fraud and the methodology of fraud examination (i.e., obtaining documentary evidence, interviewing witnesses and potential suspects, writing investigative reports, testifying to findings, and forensic document examination). The majority of the course is focused on detecting the most common types of occupational fraud, determining how each type of fraud is committed, and implementing prevention strategies.





				University Electives			





											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.












  A.S. Business Administration Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			




Describe the functions, roles, and skills of a manager
Evaluate the planning, organizing, leading, and controlling functions of a business using stated criteria.
Write and present error-free arguments for an internal business audience






 
A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. It shows where each outcome is Introduced (I), Reinforced (R), and Assessed (A) within the program's curriculum.



 
1
2
3


ACCT 215
I
I
 


BSAD 220
 
R, A
I


MGMT 312
R, A
R, A
R, A











			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.













Request Free Information!Want to learn more about Franklin University? Complete the simple form - it just takes a minute!Invest in yourself by finishing your degree.Take advantage of flexible courses that fit your busy schedule.Finish faster. Save more. Franklin fits your life.Get in-demand knowledge that helps Franklin grads stand out with top employers.Request InformationWhat type of program are you seeking?-- Select Program Type --AssociateBachelor'sCombined Bachelor's & Master'sMaster'sCertificateDoctorateNon-Degree SeekingPost BaccalaureateCollege Credit Plus/Pre-College (HS Student)What is your program of interest?-- Select Program --Microcredential-- Select Microcredential --SpecializationNoneDo you have an associate degree or diploma in nursing?-- Select Status --YesNoNursing License Status-- Select Status --I have a current RN licenseMy license is pendingMy license is suspended or expiredI do not have an RN license
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required for this program.  Please resolve the issue with your license and return to inquire at that time.  In the interim, we welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required to enter this program.  We welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			When would you like to start classes?What is your highest level of education?-- Select Highest Education --Currently pursuing a high school diploma or GEDHave a high school diploma or GEDHave or currently pursuing Associate'sCurrently pursuing Bachelor's at an institution other than FranklinHave Bachelor'sHave or currently pursuing Master'sHave or currently pursuing DoctorateWhere did you receive (or are currently pursuing) your Associate's Degree?-- Select Country --My country is not listed"
								AlbaniaAlgeriaAnguillaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBermudaBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBulgariaBurkina FasoCameroonCanadaChinaColombiaCongoCroatiaCubaCuracaoDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEnglandEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFranceGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGrenadaGuatemalaGuinea, West AfricaGuyanaHaitiHungaryIndiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJordanKenyaKyrgyzstanLebanonLesothoLiberiaLithuaniaLuxembourgMacedoniaMalawiMalaysiaMaltaMauritaniaMexicoMoldovaMongoliaMontserratNamibia, AfricaNepalNetherlandsNew ZealandNigeriaNorwayOmanPakistanPalestinePanamaPeruPhilippinesPolandPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSingaporeSlovakiaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaSpainSt. LuciaSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TanzaniaThailandTogoTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurks and Caicos IslandsUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUzbekistanVenezuelaVietnamYemenZambiaZimbabwe-- Select State ---- Select City ---- Select Institution --First NameLast NamePrimary EmailPrimary PhoneSelect the state where you live-- Select State --AlabamaAlaskaAmerican SamoaArizonaArkansasArmed Forces AmericaCaliforniaColoradoConnecticutDelawareDistrict Of ColumbiaFederated States of MicronesiaFloridaGeorgiaGuamHawaiiIdahoIllinoisIndianaIowaKansasKentuckyLouisianaMaineMarshall IslandsMarylandMassachusettsMichiganMinnesotaMississippiMissouriMontanaNebraskaNevadaNew HampshireNew JerseyNew MexicoNew YorkNorth CarolinaNorth DakotaNorthern Mariana IslandsOhioOklahomaOregonPalauPennsylvaniaPuerto RicoRhode IslandSouth CarolinaSouth DakotaTennesseeTexasUtahVermontVirgin IslandsVirginiaWashingtonWest VirginiaWisconsinWyomingZip CodeI do not live in the U.S.Where is your country of citizenship?-- Select Country --AfghanistanAland IslandsAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAmerican Samoa(Western Samoa)American Virgin IslandsAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntarticaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAshmore and Cartier IslandsAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBamakoBandungBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBouvet IslandBrazilBritish Indian Ocean TerritoryBritish Virgin IslandsBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurmaBurundiCambodiaCameroonCanadaCape VerdeCayman IslandsCentral African RepublicChadChileChinaChristmas IslandCocos (Keeling) IslandsColombiaComorosCongoCook IslandsCosta RicaCote D'Ivoire (Ivory Coast)CroatiaCubaCuracaoCzech RepublicDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDjibouti - RddDominicaDominican RepublicEast TimorEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEnglandEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFiji IslandsFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaFrench Southern TerritoriesGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreat BritainGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuamGuatemalaGuernseyGuinea, West AfricaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHaitiHeard and McDonald IslandsHerzegovinaHoly See (Vatican City)HondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsle of ManIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKuwaitKyrgyzstanLaosLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMontserratMoroccoMozambiqueMyanmar (Burma)Namibia, AfricaNauruNavassa IslandNepalNetherlandsNetherlands AntillesNew CaledoniaNew Guinea (Papua New Guinea)New ZealandNicaraguaNigerNigeriaNiueNorfolk IslandNorth KoreaNorthern IrelandNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalau, W Caroline IslandsPalestinePanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPersiaPeruPhilippinesPitcairnPolandPortugalPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRepublic of MoldovaReunionRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint BarthelemySaint HelenaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint MartinSaint Pierre and MiquelonSaint Vincent and GrenadinesSan MarinoSao Tome and PrincipeSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth AmericaSouth KoreaSouth SudanSoviet UnionSpainSri LankaSt. KittsSt. LuciaSt. MaartenSt. Thomas, V.I.SudanSurinameSvalbard and Jan MayenSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoToklauTongaTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamWales U.K.Wallis and FutunaWest AfricaWest IndiesWestern SaharaYemenYugoslaviaZaire(Democratic Rep of CongoZambiaZimbabweAre you serving in the U.S. military, a veteran, or a spouse or dependent of a servicemember?YesNoImmigration StatusI am a U.S. immigrant, such as a Permanent Resident, Asylee, Refugee, or undocumented immigrantI am a non-immigrant to the U.S., such as an F-1 Student, H-1B Worker, H-4 Dependent, J-1 Visitor, or B-1/B-2 TouristI plan to come to the U.S. as an international studentI plan to study online from outside the U.S. 
				Step 1 of 3Get Started >< BackNext >Submit
				In submitting my contact information, I understand that I will receive phone calls, text messages and email about attending Franklin University. I may opt out of these communications at any time.
				
				Your privacy is important to us. Privacy PolicyLoading...We're SorryThere was an unexpected error with the form (your web browser was unable to retrieve some required data from our servers).  This kind of error may occur if you have temporarily lost your internet connection.  If you're able to verify that your internet connection is stable and the error persists, the Franklin University Help Desk is available to assist you at helpdesk@franklin.edu, 614.947.6682 (local), or 1.866.435.7006 (toll free).Just a moment while we process your submission.







Employment Outlook





11%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Business & Leadership are expected to increase by 11%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 
Management Analysts
$99,424
157,111
15%




Management Analysts
									Median Salary: $99,424

									Job Postings: 157,111

									Projected Growth: 15%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionManagement Analysts conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Analysts82,04352%IT Business Analysts10,1296%Program Analysts9,4876%Business Data Analysts6,1864%Business Process Analysts5,2363%Business Operations Analysts5,2143%Analytics Managers4,9953%Lead Business Analysts3,6152%Business Consultants4,0333%Salesforce Business Analysts3,3272%Management Analysts3,5012%Business Information Consultants2,5752%Management and Program Analysts2,7372%Servicenow Business Analysts2,2812%Business Services Analysts2,0381%Solutions Consultants1,7511%Independent Operators2,7852%Business Process Consultants1,7041%Business Solutions Analysts1,7411%Business Information Analysts1,7331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management61,84029%Business Process46,16222%Data Analysis45,85022%Business Requirements37,22318%SQL (Programming Language)34,89417%Finance32,02215%Agile Methodology31,06915%Business Analysis30,36214%Process Improvement28,82514%Workflow Management26,85413%Computer Science25,28612%Accounting21,25310%Marketing19,5149%Change Management18,6779%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)17,4618%Auditing17,3928%Dashboard16,8498%Scrum (Software Development)16,0068%Management Consulting15,9118%User Story15,7047%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services26%Federal Government, Civilian9%Computer Systems Design and Related Services7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Insurance Carriers5%Other42% 
Operations Research Analysts
$83,637
36,955
23%




Operations Research Analysts
									Median Salary: $83,637

									Job Postings: 36,955

									Projected Growth: 23%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionOperations Research Analysts formulate and apply mathematical modeling and other optimizing methods to develop and interpret information that assists management with decisionmaking, policy formulation, or other managerial functions. May collect and analyze data and develop decision support software, services, or products. May develop and supply optimal time, cost, or logistics networks for program evaluation, review, or implementation.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Analysts8,55223%Sales Operations Analysts4,43212%Operations Research Analysts2,9248%Continuous Improvement Managers2,3957%Process Improvement Managers1,3414%Process Improvement Analysts1,5304%Surgeons6,01516%Business Process Managers1,5064%Methodologists9173%Decision Support Analysts9653%IT Operations Analysts8862%Revenue Operations Analysts7302%Operations Support Analysts7242%Process Excellence Managers5241%Investment Operations Analysts6182%Cybersecurity Operations Analysts6052%Decision Science Analysts6702%Process Analysts5331%Process Managers6742%Business Process Improvement Managers4141%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management12,02821%Process Improvement11,85521%Data Analysis9,82717%Finance8,83815%Continuous Improvement Process7,33913%Auditing6,07511%Business Process6,06111%Workflow Management5,2499%SQL (Programming Language)5,2259%Accounting5,0479%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)4,9559%Marketing4,2627%Computer Science3,9827%Dashboard3,8927%Supply Chain3,8227%Automation3,8007%Operations Research3,7527%Statistics3,6286%Salesforce3,4616%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)3,4366%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryState Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals13%Management of Companies and Enterprises10%Depository Credit Intermediation8%Federal Government, Civilian6%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services6%Computer Systems Design and Related Services6%Other51% 
Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists
$74,672
164,433
19%




Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists
									Median Salary: $74,672

									Job Postings: 164,433

									Projected Growth: 19%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionMarket Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists research conditions in local, regional, national, or online markets. Gather information to determine potential sales of a product or service, or plan a marketing or advertising campaign. May gather information on competitors, prices, sales, and methods of marketing and distribution. May employ search marketing tactics, analyze web metrics, and develop recommendations to increase search engine ranking and visibility to target markets. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Development Representatives42,30726%Marketing Specialists19,39012%Marketing Assistants16,16010%Business Development Specialists12,0417%Digital Marketing Specialists10,0766%Marketing Associates10,5506%Business Development Associates8,0015%Social Media Specialists7,6125%Social Media Coordinators6,6744%Marketing Analysts3,2872%Field Marketing Representatives3,3692%BDC Representatives2,5802%Marketing Consultants2,3831%Email Marketing Specialists2,8212%Product Specialists2,6972%Digital Marketing Analysts2,1421%Content Marketing Specialists2,3721%Product Analysts2,1211%Search Engine Optimization Specialists2,7812%Research Specialists5,0693%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsMarketing142,77463%Social Media44,94120%Project Management41,00818%Business Development40,39218%Digital Marketing36,29116%Customer Relationship Management31,59614%Analytics24,84111%Sales Prospecting24,22711%Marketing Strategies23,60810%Search Engine Optimization23,19410%Market Research22,43510%Data Analysis22,40010%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)20,0129%Marketing Communications19,4969%Content Creation18,9478%Google Analytics18,0718%Salesforce16,8717%Business To Business14,8817%Email Marketing13,9746%Selling Techniques13,3956%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services11%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Computer Systems Design and Related Services6%Advertising, Public Relations, and Related Services5%Software Publishers3%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities3%Other66% 
Buyers and Purchasing Agents
$71,947
181,092
-1%




Buyers and Purchasing Agents
									Median Salary: $71,947

									Job Postings: 181,092

									Projected Growth: -1%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionBuyers and Purchasing Agents purchase farm products either for further processing or resale. Includes tree farm contractors, grain brokers and market operators, grain buyers, and tobacco buyers. May negotiate contracts. Buy merchandise or commodities, other than farm products, for resale to consumers at the wholesale or retail level, including both durable and nondurable goods. Analyze past buying trends, sales records, price, and quality of merchandise to determine value and yield. Select, order, and authorize payment for merchandise according to contractual agreements. May conduct meetings with sales personnel and introduce new products. May negotiate contracts. Includes assistant wholesale and retail buyers of nonfarm products. Purchase machinery, equipment, tools, parts, supplies, or services necessary for the operation of an establishment. Purchase raw or semifinished materials for manufacturing. May negotiate contracts.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBuyers35,56120%Contract Administrators20,44911%Contract Specialists15,3319%Procurement Specialists15,3509%Purchasing Agents16,7369%Proposal Managers8,7385%Contracts Managers8,0915%Procurement Analysts6,2804%Purchasing Coordinators5,6603%Buyers/Planners5,0623%Purchasing Specialists5,3093%Contract Analysts5,6683%Lead Subcontracts Administrators4,9383%Energy Consultants6,6294%Sourcing Specialists4,4433%Proposal Specialists3,7802%Subcontract Administrators4,4593%Contract Managers3,0642%Marketing and Proposal Specialists1,9811%Vehicle Acquisition Managers3,5632%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsPurchasing73,33242%Procurement73,01542%Contract Management32,83419%Project Management28,92316%Finance28,91716%Supply Chain27,43116%Invoicing26,13315%Request For Proposal26,00615%Accounting25,07414%Auditing18,86011%Marketing17,88410%Contract Negotiation15,3849%Subcontracting13,8278%SAP Applications13,0447%Supply Chain Management12,9027%Process Improvement12,1817%Continuous Improvement Process11,1486%Supplier Performance Management10,9966%Inventory Management10,2016%Data Analysis9,9726%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian9%Management of Companies and Enterprises8%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals3%Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing3%Machinery, Equipment, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers2%Grocery and Related Product Merchant Wholesalers2%Other73% 
Statistical Assistants
$50,523
250
2%




Statistical Assistants
									Median Salary: $50,523

									Job Postings: 250

									Projected Growth: 2%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionStatistical Assistants compile and compute data according to statistical formulas for use in statistical studies. May perform actuarial computations and compile charts and graphs for use by actuaries. Includes actuarial clerks.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsStatistical Analysts14960%Assistant Professors of Mathematics166%Assistant Professors of Political Science125%Mathematics Assistant Professors52%Tenure-Track Professors94%Assistant Professors of Statistics42%IT Student Assistants73%Statistical Scientists42%Assistant/Associate/Full Professors42%Clinical Assistant Professors52%Mathematical Statisticians42%Directors of Data Science104%Environmental Scientists21%Financial Reporting and Analysis Managers73%Mathematics Teaching Assistants10%Occupational Therapy Assistants21%Quantitative Analytics Managers21%Statistical Research Analysts21%Statistical Research Assistants31%Technical Resource Specialists21%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsStatistics14194%Data Analysis11476%Statistical Analysis10469%Data Mining10369%Data Structures10369%Software Development10369%Usability10369%SAS (Software)10167%Computer Programming10067%Python (Programming Language)10067%R (Programming Language)10067%C# (Programming Language)9966%Java (Programming Language)9966%Structured Programming9966%Version Control9966%Task Management9765%Data Science2215%Mathematical Statistics1510%Algebra128%Biostatistics128%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryScientific Research and Development Services12%Computer Systems Design and Related Services10%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools10%Federal Government, Civilian10%Insurance Carriers9%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals8%Other41% 

Show More

Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.






Frequently Asked Questions





		How long does it take to get a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Business Administration in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Administration associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Business Administration associate degree?
		


An associate of science degree program like this is generally a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Business Administration degree program, you'll learn fundamental business principles, concepts and theories, as well as how to apply them on the job.




		What can you do with a Business Administration associate degree?
		


With an A.S. Business Administration from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of assistant-level business job titles, including general assistant manager, sales associate, project coordinator, assistant business analyst and assistant director of customer service.




		Why get a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can help you start your career sooner than with a traditional bachelor's degree program. Plus, an A.S. Business Administration from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Business Administration degree program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Business Administration associate degree unique?
		


Get more with Franklin’s associate degree program. In addition to fundamental business classes, you can choose up to 12 hours of major area electives from a large selection of classes. Our program lets you delve into a specific area of interest, such as marketing, while you earn your A.S. Business Administration.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Is an MBA in Marketing Worth It?



Is a Business Administration Degree Worth It? 



Is a Business Degree Worth It?



10 Best Business Degrees for Career-Seekers



What Can You Do with a Business Degree? More Than You Think.










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog