URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/bachelors/criminal-justice-administration
Criminal Justice Bachelor's Degree Program Online | Franklin.edu



















B.S. Criminal Justice Administration
 

  

120Credit Hours75%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025
                                                              Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025
                                                              Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025
                                                              Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026
                                                              Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026
                                                              Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026
                                                              Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Transfer ToolRequest InfoApply Today

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Bachelor's Degrees
                /  
                                              Criminal Justice Administration
                          

  Enforce your career goals with an online criminal justice bachelor's degree


As a security-conscious society with one of the highest crime and incarceration rates in the world, the U.S. criminal justice system is on the precipice of a new era -- one that requires smart and savvy leaders who can challenge old conventions. With a transfer-friendly B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree from Franklin, you'll be equipped to launch or advance your criminal justice career while helping deter criminal activity, resolve disputes or help those impacted by crime. 


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Customizable Program
Tailor your program by choosing from a variety of electives.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from in-the-field criminal justice adminstrators.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.



  Hands-On Curriculum
Go beyond the classroom with broad-based, experiential learning tools.



  Accredited Online University
Nearly 80% of our students take online courses.










  Criminal Justice Bachelor's Degree Overview





  Protect, serve, and preserve social order and public safety

Tackling today’s criminal justice challenges requires a new generation of leaders who are equipped with the knowledge, understanding, and analytical skills necessary to develop innovative, multisystemic solutions. Franklin University’s Criminal Justice Administration degree program can help you meet the changing educational requirements of this exciting and growing field. Whether you want to start a new career or advance your current public safety or post-military career, Franklin can prepare you for a position of leadership in the criminal justice administration arena.With our online criminal justice degree, you’ll learn to preserve and maintain social order by gaining critical skills in these key areas: law enforcement; corrections, probation, and parole; juvenile justice, delinquency, and juvenile corrections; criminology theory and crime control; and criminal justice leadership and administration.Learn best practices that decrease crime and increase public safetyAt Franklin, you’ll become a critical consumer of criminal justice and criminology research, applying best practices from across the country. You’ll learn to analyze and synthesize scientific theories of crime control, evaluating and developing models specific to various correlates of crime.In this bachelor's degree program, you’ll gain an understanding of both adult and juvenile justice systems, as well as the skills to apply innovative programmatic efforts. From due process to constitutional protections to the importance of case law in American criminal justice, you’ll be exposed to the specific legal and ethical challenges for each branch of the U.S. criminal justice system.You’ll also learn new data-driven best practices to decrease crime and diminish reliance on mass incarceration practices that marginalize entire communities. Plus you’ll learn to use modern-day technologies, such as crime mapping, to prevent and control crime.  Get practical experience with hands-on curriculum and assignmentsWith broad-based experiential learning tools and cutting-edge research beyond traditional classrooms, you’ll participate in unique multimedia-based learning experiences that include virtual field trips, offender accounts, and guest speakers.In addition, you’ll apply and evaluate strategic prevention and law enforcement policies through a series of case studies, integrating your learning into an analysis that prepares you for realistic criminal justice challenges.Designed with the inside knowledge of law enforcement professionals and U.S. court system leaders, and overseen by our expert Advisory Board including Ohio’s state inspector general, Franklin’s Criminal Justice bachelor's degree program curriculum meets the high professional standards prospective employers are looking for.Earn a bachelor's in Criminal Justice from a university built for busy adultsEarn your degree on your terms by taking classes 100% online. Accredited and nonprofit, Franklin was built from the ground-up to satisfy the needs of adult learners. Our seamless transfer process and team of academic advisors will help ease your transition to becoming a student, while our flexible course schedules help to balance your education with work family and life. Get started on your future today.Read more >



Alberta A.
B.S. Criminal Justice Administration '23
"The University provided me with the support and online flexibility to complete my bachelor’s degree, finishing what I started. I was nervous when I returned to college, but thanks to Franklin, they made me believe as a mother, wife, and full-time employee I can do it; and I now look towards earning my master’s degree." 







  Future Start Date




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 








   Your Best Value B.S. Criminal Justice Administration 




Choose Franklin's B.S. in Criminal Justice and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and budget.







Keep the Credit You've Earned


68
AVG TRANSFER HOURS

On average, students transfer in 45% of the credits required.







Transfer MORE Credits, Pay LESS tuition*



$11,940
|
$20,696


Max Transfer Credits
Avg Transfer Credits

*$398 per credit, 120 Total Credits, 90 maximum transfer credits, 68 average transfer credits.








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional 
organization partnership.








$47,760
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Full-Time, One-Class-at-a-Time




Focus on one 6-week class at a time and maintain full-time status by taking 3 courses per term.


85% of the program can be completed by taking six-week course, one class at a time

×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×








  Criminal Justice Bachelor's Degree Courses & Curriculum




				120 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 160 - College Algebra (4)
This course is designed to prepare students for Applied Calculus and Discrete Mathematics and to provide the mathematical background needed for the analytic reasoning used in other courses. Topics include functions and their graphs, including exponential and logarithmic functions; complex numbers; systems of equations and inequalities; matrices; basic principles of counting and probability; and other selected topics. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).
OR MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.


																					AND																			

Choose MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite to MATH 160. Choose either MATH 140 Introduction to Quantitative Reasoning or MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite to MATH 215.  Prerequisite course can count as a University Elective.




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							



POSC 204 - American Government (3)
The course examines the complex political and legal environment of public administration. Students learn how politics, law, and the structure and principles of American government impact citizens, public policy, and the administration of public and nonprofit organizations. Students apply fundamental political theories and administrative law principles in administrative contexts. Students pursuing the Public Administration major should take this course prior to beginning their specialization course work.


																					AND																			


											3 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Anthropology, Economics, Geography, History, Psychology, or Sociology disciplines.
										




								Arts & Humanities							



HUMN 211 - Introduction to Critical Ethics (2)
Critical Ethics uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition. Accordingly, the goal of this course is to help the student improve his/her ethical analysis and evaluation skills to help the student do the thing that must be done, when it ought to be done, using critical thinking.


																					AND																			


											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.


																					AND																			

ENG 220 - Research Writing: Exploring Professional Identities (4)
This is an intermediate course focusing on the composition of research papers. Students in this course prepare to be active participants in professional discourse communities by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their own fields of study and work. By calling attention to the conventions of disciplinary writing, the course also prepares students for upper-division college writing and the special conventions of advanced academic discourse. Course activities include three extended research papers, semi-formal writing addressing interdisciplinary communication, and readings fostering critical engagement with disciplinary conversations.





				Professional Core			




CJAD 210 - Intro to Criminal Justice Administration (4)
This is an introductory course designed to expose students to the various Major elements of the criminal justice system (police, courts, and corrections). Students will learn about the ways in which the various systems interact, the processing of offenders, the various forms of punishment and the alternatives to punishment. The future of the criminal justice system will also be discussed.


CJAD 240 - Introduction to Criminology (4)
This course will focus on theories of crime and types of offending. Topics related the causation, control and prevention of criminal behavior will be addressed in this course.


CJAD 340 - Evidence Based Practice & Research (4)
This innovative approach to research describes best practices and data-driven solutions in criminal justice research including quantitative, qualitative, and program evaluation research. Students will be good consumers of research and will have the fundamental knowledge necessary to evaluate research studies, evaluate their value toward their field of interest, and evaluate their usefulness for making sound decisions in the field.





				Major Area Required			




CJAD 310 - Courts and Criminal Procedure (4)
This course addresses the requirements for processing criminal offenders through the court system. Topics include structure of the court system in the U.S., evidentiary standards, constitutional protections, the role and importance of case law, and the role of the prosecutor and defense attorney in the courts.


CJAD 315 - Policing in America (4)
This course is designed to provide insight into the history and organization of American police agencies from the mid-1800s to the present day. You will learn about the three levels of law enforcement in America. You will be exposed to managerial and organizational concepts commonly employed in American police agencies. You will become familiar with the standards and training generally required to become a police officer in America. The concept of police culture and related issues will also be discussed. You will have the opportunity to consider the history and current status of females and minorities in the American police system. American policing and its relationship to ethics and the power of discretion will be discussed. The operations and functions of patrol officers and detectives will also be discussed in some detail. Included in the discussion of patrol and detective operations will be a discussion of the related importance and impact of the Bill of Rights and the U.S. Supreme Court. The concept of police-community relations will be discussed as will selected philosophies of policing that impact police-community relations. Finally, you will consider the impact of new and emerging technologies on American policing. The impact of the advent of the Department of Homeland Security and related changes in the Post - 9/11 era will also be discussed.


CJAD 320 - Corrections in America (4)
This course considers contemporary corrections in America. This course will include a review of recent corrections-related research and a discussion of the role corrections plays in the criminal justice system. Topics covered will include a historical overview of corrections in America, alternatives to incarceration, types and functions of various prison systems in corrections, and various categories of inmates within the corrections system.


CJAD 330 - Juvenile Justice & Delinquency (4)
This course will address the history of the U.S. juvenile justice system and the nature and extent of youth crime. It will focus on the correlates and theoretical perspectives used to explain juvenile delinquency all within a framework of current research and strategies used to prevent, treat, and control youth crime. Students will analyze and apply these concepts to the structure within which juveniles are taken into custody, treated, processed, rehabilitated or punished in an integrated and collaborative environment. Finally, students will examine basic criminal justice research methods and the role of science and inquiry in criminal justice.


CJAD 450 - Criminal Justice Management & Admin (4)
This course will examine the basic concepts of management and administration as applied to agencies in the criminal justice system. Emphasis will be placed on issues related to the effective management and administration of criminal justice agencies. Topics covered will include environmental influence; conflict, power, and ethical issues; motivation, leadership, and communication. The concept of the service quality approach will also be considered.


CJAD 455 - Ethics in the Criminal Justice System (4)
This course will address the topics of ethical and moral values as they pertain to the criminal justice system. Topics covered will include ethics and the police, racial discrimination in the criminal justice system, the purpose of punishment, ethics in corrections, and the ethics of criminal justice policy making.


CJAD 495 - Criminal Justice Administration Capstone (4)
The Criminal Justice Capstone will be the final course completed by students in the Criminal Justice Program. The capstone course will include a practicum that will allow students to apply the theories, principles and knowledge obtained throughout the criminal justice program to a real-life problem or project in a criminal justice agency. For students who may not be associated with a criminal justice agency; an alternative to the practicum will be a research project that identifies and examines a current criminal justice issue or problem. Students will complete a research paper with recommendations for addressing the identified problem. The recommendations will be based on the theories, principles and knowledge obtained throughout the criminal justice program. Prerequisites: Completion of all Professional Core Courses.





				Major Electives			




At least 8 credits from the following courses:
CJAD 335 - Case Management  (3)
This course focuses on the importance of the case manager's role in the mental health community support services. Included is information on the history of mental health services, the nature of mental health problems, the social service network, as well as the entire range of available client entitlements and legal rights. There is a focus on skills necessary for relating to clients, helping to set goals and solve problems, learning when and how to intervene in crisis situations and how to be effective advocates while drawing on the strengths of the community.
CJAD 360 - Intro: Terrorism & Intelligence Analysis  (4)
This course examines intelligence analysis and its indispensable relationship to the management of terrorist attacks, man-made disasters and natural disasters. It also explores vulnerabilities of our national defense and private sectors, as well as the threats posed to these institutions by terrorists. Students will discuss substantive issues regarding intelligence support of homeland security measures implemented by the United States and explore how the intelligence community operates.
CJAD 415 - Contemporary Policing Strategies & Issue  (4)
This course provides insight into the history and evolution of policing strategies in American law enforcement. You will become familiar with the eras of policing and discuss the policing strategies commonly associated with each era. You will engage in a discussion of the War on Drugs and the War on Crime and the ways in which these efforts have impacted and/or influenced policing strategies since the mid-1960s. You also will engage in a more focused study of contemporary policing strategies to include: Community Policing, Problem Oriented Policing, Third Party Policing, Hot Spot Policing, and Crime Prevention as well as CompStat, Intelligence-led policing, and other selected strategies applied to policing in the 21st Century. You will have the opportunity to examine various policing strategies as they are applied in an actual police agency that you will select for study and analysis. Finally, you will consider the growing militarization of local police agencies and the impact it is having on civilian police services in America.
CJAD 420 - Cybercrime  (4)
Most assets escape exploitation not because they are impregnable but because they are not targeted.   (Herley, 2014    p.70)   Cybercrime is perpetrated all over the world and results in tremendous financial loss to many individuals, businesses, and countries of the World. This course sets out to accomplish several learning outcomes but also to develop a level of literacy about cyber related crime that will help to diminish or mitigate the problems associated with these types of crimes. The awareness of cybercrime-related activity as it pertains to your everyday life is important to your ability to navigate away from this serious criminal activity that is just beginning to grip our society. This course is designed as a literacy course and although it has critical terminology is not fundamentally a computer forensics or technical course.  Herley, C., (2014).  Security, Cybercrime, and Scale.  Communications of the ACM, 57,(9).  DOI:10.1145/2654847
CJAD 425 - Probation and Parole  (4)
This course addresses the role of probation, parole and community corrections in the U.S. corrections system. Topics include management and supervision of a full range of intermediate alternatives to prison and jail including pretrial release, diversion, economic sanctions, probation, residential supervision, and other unique alternatives. Philosophies and theories of offender treatment and punishment will be analyzed within the context and application of public policy. Parole will be examined and various programs will be compared and contrasted in light of best evidence and economic policies in the U.S. A particular focus will be paid to successful reentry and wraparound programming. Risk assessment will be integrated throughout as a contemporary and data-driven means of individualized rehabilitative and treatment models that seek to lower recidivism and improve public safety.
CJAD 430 - Juvenile Corrections  (4)
This course will present students with an introduction and history of juvenile corrections. More in-depth coverage will focus on contemporary sentencing and correctional strategies including alternative sanctions. Students will be exposed to treatment and rehabilitative programmatic trends both inside and outside secure institutions. Additional topics will include correctional staff training, risk assessment, and evaluative studies both quantitative and qualitative.
CJAD 440 - Sociology of Deviant Behavior  (4)
Students will become familiar with the various theories of deviant behavior and discuss deviance in terms of both criminal and non-criminal behavior. Topics covered in this course will include types of deviance, deviance and crime, stigma, physical disabilities, mental disorders, and recent forms of deviance.
CJAD 445 - Victimology  (3)
This course is a seminar/survey course in violent victimization in the United States. Emphasis is placed upon the impact of these victimizations upon the victims and society. In addition, the response of the criminal justice system and of society to these victimizations will be explored. Theories of crime prevention and victimization will be discussed throughout the semester to encourage students to analytically consider the factors which cause victimization, and which factors can possibly prevent victimizations from occurring.
PUAD 305 - Introduction to Public Administration  (4)
Students are introduced to the field and profession of public administration. Students learn to think and act as ethical public administration professionals by developing a broad understanding of the political and organizational environment in which public administrators work and by applying fundamental analytical, decision- making, and communication skills. The professional knowledge and skills explored in the course provide a foundation for subsequent public administration courses.
PUAD 420 - Government & Nonprofit Budgeting  (4)
Students learn fundamental budgeting, accounting, and financial management concepts and techniques necessary for planning, analysis, and decision making in government and nonprofit organizations. Students also examine the competing values and politics that underlie and impact the budget process and financial decisions. Finally, students apply skills for effectively communicating financial analysis methods and conclusions with colleagues, elected officials, the media, and the public.
CJAD 400 - Forensic Psychology  (4)
The course outlines the history of psychology and the law from the late 1800?s to the Daubert Standard and beyond.  The course outlines various arenas where the law and particularly aspects of the criminal justice system have utilized psychology to inform investigations and litigation.  There are some aspects of civil litigation covered with respect to family law and harassment. The course describes criminal psychology, sexual violence, and victimology from a psychological perspective.





				University Electives			





											36 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Optional Focus Areas			




Students may complete a focus area to fulfill the Major Area Elective requirement.


																					OR																			
Corrections:

CJAD 425 - Probation and Parole (4)
This course addresses the role of probation, parole and community corrections in the U.S. corrections system. Topics include management and supervision of a full range of intermediate alternatives to prison and jail including pretrial release, diversion, economic sanctions, probation, residential supervision, and other unique alternatives. Philosophies and theories of offender treatment and punishment will be analyzed within the context and application of public policy. Parole will be examined and various programs will be compared and contrasted in light of best evidence and economic policies in the U.S. A particular focus will be paid to successful reentry and wraparound programming. Risk assessment will be integrated throughout as a contemporary and data-driven means of individualized rehabilitative and treatment models that seek to lower recidivism and improve public safety.
CJAD 430 - Juvenile Corrections (4)
This course will present students with an introduction and history of juvenile corrections. More in-depth coverage will focus on contemporary sentencing and correctional strategies including alternative sanctions. Students will be exposed to treatment and rehabilitative programmatic trends both inside and outside secure institutions. Additional topics will include correctional staff training, risk assessment, and evaluative studies both quantitative and qualitative.


																					OR																			
Homeland Security:

CJAD 360 - Intro: Terrorism & Intelligence Analysis (4)
This course examines intelligence analysis and its indispensable relationship to the management of terrorist attacks, man-made disasters and natural disasters. It also explores vulnerabilities of our national defense and private sectors, as well as the threats posed to these institutions by terrorists. Students will discuss substantive issues regarding intelligence support of homeland security measures implemented by the United States and explore how the intelligence community operates.
CJAD 420 - Cybercrime (4)
Most assets escape exploitation not because they are impregnable but because they are not targeted.   (Herley, 2014    p.70)   Cybercrime is perpetrated all over the world and results in tremendous financial loss to many individuals, businesses, and countries of the World. This course sets out to accomplish several learning outcomes but also to develop a level of literacy about cyber related crime that will help to diminish or mitigate the problems associated with these types of crimes. The awareness of cybercrime-related activity as it pertains to your everyday life is important to your ability to navigate away from this serious criminal activity that is just beginning to grip our society. This course is designed as a literacy course and although it has critical terminology is not fundamentally a computer forensics or technical course.  Herley, C., (2014).  Security, Cybercrime, and Scale.  Communications of the ACM, 57,(9).  DOI:10.1145/2654847


																					OR																			
Law Enforcement:

CJAD 360 - Intro: Terrorism & Intelligence Analysis (4)
This course examines intelligence analysis and its indispensable relationship to the management of terrorist attacks, man-made disasters and natural disasters. It also explores vulnerabilities of our national defense and private sectors, as well as the threats posed to these institutions by terrorists. Students will discuss substantive issues regarding intelligence support of homeland security measures implemented by the United States and explore how the intelligence community operates.
CJAD 415 - Contemporary Policing Strategies & Issue (4)
This course provides insight into the history and evolution of policing strategies in American law enforcement. You will become familiar with the eras of policing and discuss the policing strategies commonly associated with each era. You will engage in a discussion of the War on Drugs and the War on Crime and the ways in which these efforts have impacted and/or influenced policing strategies since the mid-1960s. You also will engage in a more focused study of contemporary policing strategies to include: Community Policing, Problem Oriented Policing, Third Party Policing, Hot Spot Policing, and Crime Prevention as well as CompStat, Intelligence-led policing, and other selected strategies applied to policing in the 21st Century. You will have the opportunity to examine various policing strategies as they are applied in an actual police agency that you will select for study and analysis. Finally, you will consider the growing militarization of local police agencies and the impact it is having on civilian police services in America.


																					OR																			
Public Administration:

PUAD 305 - Introduction to Public Administration (4)
Students are introduced to the field and profession of public administration. Students learn to think and act as ethical public administration professionals by developing a broad understanding of the political and organizational environment in which public administrators work and by applying fundamental analytical, decision- making, and communication skills. The professional knowledge and skills explored in the course provide a foundation for subsequent public administration courses.
PUAD 420 - Government & Nonprofit Budgeting (4)
Students learn fundamental budgeting, accounting, and financial management concepts and techniques necessary for planning, analysis, and decision making in government and nonprofit organizations. Students also examine the competing values and politics that underlie and impact the budget process and financial decisions. Finally, students apply skills for effectively communicating financial analysis methods and conclusions with colleagues, elected officials, the media, and the public.


																					OR																			
Special Populations:

8 credits from:
																					CJAD 335 - Case Management (3)
This course focuses on the importance of the case manager's role in the mental health community support services. Included is information on the history of mental health services, the nature of mental health problems, the social service network, as well as the entire range of available client entitlements and legal rights. There is a focus on skills necessary for relating to clients, helping to set goals and solve problems, learning when and how to intervene in crisis situations and how to be effective advocates while drawing on the strengths of the community.
CJAD 440 - Sociology of Deviant Behavior (4)
Students will become familiar with the various theories of deviant behavior and discuss deviance in terms of both criminal and non-criminal behavior. Topics covered in this course will include types of deviance, deviance and crime, stigma, physical disabilities, mental disorders, and recent forms of deviance.
CJAD 445 - Victimology (3)
This course is a seminar/survey course in violent victimization in the United States. Emphasis is placed upon the impact of these victimizations upon the victims and society. In addition, the response of the criminal justice system and of society to these victimizations will be explored. Theories of crime prevention and victimization will be discussed throughout the semester to encourage students to analytically consider the factors which cause victimization, and which factors can possibly prevent victimizations from occurring.





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











  Academic Minors




Personalize your degree with a minor. Explore available minors, learn how minors can benefit you, and find out what requirements you must meet to earn a minor.Learn More







  B.S. Criminal Justice Administration Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the B.S. Criminal Justice Administration matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.









			
  Additional Transfer Credit Opportunities

			


Franklin offers college credit for the following training courses:

Ohio Police Officer Training Academy (OPOTA): 28 credit hours 
Corrections or Bailiff Training (OPOTA or ODRC): 4 credit hours 
FBI National Academy Course: 4 credit hours
Certified Law Enforcement Executive (CLEE) Program: 4 credit hours 
Supervisor Training and Education Program (STEP): 4 credit hours
Police Executive Leadership College (PELC) Program: 8 credit hours 
Southern Police Institute Courses: up to 8 credit hours 
Northwestern Command Courses: up to 12 credit hours 

If you have completed one or more of these training courses, you may be able to earn college credit and save significant time and money. To determine if your course qualifies for college credit, upload your support materials to Franklin University’s Learning Exchange, a free, web-based tool that enables you to collect certificates, military training, advanced placement, proficiency tests and other learning experiences and submit them for evaluation toward college credit.




Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Sean Asbury
Columbus State Community College
Chief


Laurel Beatty
10th District Court of Appeals
Judge


Kimberly Blair
Mid-Ohio Psychological Services, Inc.
Executive Director


Kim Browne
Franklin County Common Pleas Court
Judge


Ronette Burkes-Trowsdell
Ohio Dept. of Rehabilitation & Corrections
Regional Director of Specialty Prisons


Kathy Crandall
Franklin County Homeland Security & Justice Programs
Director


Lea Culver
Creek Technologies Co.
President + CEO


Matthew Curtin
Interhack Corporation
Founder


Lee Foster
ARMADA Ltd
Director, Preparedness Programs


Jeffrey Furbee
City of Columbus
Chief Police Legal Advisor


Shawn Harper
American Services
Owner


Rick Hulse
Rampart H S-CO
President + CEO


Frederick Kauser
Mifflin Township Division of Fire
Fire Chief


Tina Lyden
Elysian Fiber
President + CEO


Doug McCollough
City of Dublin
CIO


Robert Meader
Columbus Division of Police
Commander


Randall Meyer
Ohio Inspector General
Ohio Inspector General


Karhlton Moore
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services
Executive Director


Joe Morbitzer
Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation
Director


Edward Myles
Georgia State University
Associate Professor


Allen Perk
XLN Systems
President


Ned Pettus
City of Columbus
Director of Public Safety


Tracy Reveal, Ph.D
Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction
Parole Board Member


Norman Robinson, II
London Correctional Facility
Warden


Justin Root
State of Ohio Attorney General's Office
Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigations


Jeff Schmidt
Columbus Collaboratory LLC
Chief Cyber Security Innovator


Daniel Shafer, II




Jason Skidmore
Vernovis
CEO + Owner


Kathy Starkoff
Orange Star Consulting
President + CEO


Rebecca Steele
Franklin County
Public Defender


Robert Stewart
City of Columbus
Asst. Director of Public Safety


Ginine Trim
Ohio Department of Youth Services
Deputy Dir., Pro. Standards


Anthony Wilson, Ph.D
Columbus Metropolitan Libraries
Director of Security








Employment Outlook





9%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Criminal Justice & Public Safety are expected to increase by 9%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



First-Line Supervisors of Firefighting and Prevention Workers
$86,216
3,751
8%




First-Line Supervisors of Firefighting and Prevention Workers
									Median Salary: $86,216

									Job Postings: 3,751

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionFirst-Line Supervisors of Firefighting and Prevention Workers directly supervise and coordinate activities of workers engaged in firefighting and fire prevention and control.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsFire Chiefs70919%Fire Marshals61416%Fire Captains56915%Deputy Fire Marshals3309%Deputy Fire Chiefs3429%Assistant Fire Chiefs2166%Assistant Fire Marshals2025%Deputy State Fire Marshals1073%Fire Battalion Chiefs1504%Crew Chiefs1825%Division Chiefs431%Battalion Chiefs331%Wildland Firefighters622%Fire Specialists351%Captains421%Assistant Chiefs of Operations321%Deputy Chiefs of Operations291%Deputy Chiefs130%Firefighters231%Assistant Chiefs of Training181%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsFire Prevention1,02245%Firefighting1,02145%Fire Suppression Systems74033%Fire Service72232%Fire Science69231%Emergency Medical Services61227%Fire Protection59526%Fire Safety56025%Incident Command Systems55024%Fire Investigation50022%NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) Codes44119%Emergency Management43019%Emergency Response42919%Public Administration35115%Construction35015%Fire And Life Safety33715%National Incident Management Systems31414%Performance Appraisal25711%Fire Alarm Systems25611%Code Enforcement2139%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryLocal Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals92%Other Support Services3%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals2%Federal Government, Civilian2%Investigation and Security Services0%Community Food and Housing, and Emergency and Other Relief Services0%Other0% 
Emergency Management Directors
$83,970
12,489
7%




Emergency Management Directors
									Median Salary: $83,970

									Job Postings: 12,489

									Projected Growth: 7%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionEmergency Management Directors plan and direct disaster response or crisis management activities, provide disaster preparedness training, and prepare emergency plans and procedures for natural (e.g., hurricanes, floods, earthquakes), wartime, or technological (e.g., nuclear power plant emergencies or hazardous materials spills) disasters or hostage situations.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsDirectors of Emergency Services3,61829%Emergency Management Specialists1,75714%Emergency Managers8337%Emergency Management Coordinators6535%Emergency Services Managers5765%Emergency Response Managers8567%Emergency Preparedness Managers5705%Emergency Preparedness Coordinators4404%Emergency Management Directors3002%Emergency Preparedness Specialists3563%Emergency Response Teams4223%Emergency Response Specialists3143%Emergency Management Planners3403%Emergency Management Analysts1962%Supervisory Emergency Management Specialists2942%Emergency Response Coordinators2432%Emergency Coordinators1992%Emergency Management Program Managers2112%Management Coordinators1031%Crisis Managers2082%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsEmergency Management4,11745%Emergency Response3,19035%Emergency Preparedness2,50627%Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)1,49716%Incident Command Systems1,43916%Project Management1,43416%National Incident Management Systems1,27414%Nursing1,16713%Emergency Departments90710%Public Administration8529%Law Enforcement7518%Crisis Management6767%Disaster Response6657%Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)6247%Disaster Recovery6157%Emergency Medical Services6087%Disaster Preparedness5616%Risk Analysis5596%Mental Health5586%Emergency Response Planning5536%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryLocal Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals52%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals15%Federal Government, Military12%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals3%Community Food and Housing, and Emergency and Other Relief Services2%Education and Hospitals (State Government)2%Other13% 
Compliance Officers
$75,670
62,959
9%




Compliance Officers
									Median Salary: $75,670

									Job Postings: 62,959

									Projected Growth: 9%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionCompliance Officers examine, evaluate, and investigate eligibility for or conformity with laws and regulations governing contract compliance of licenses and permits, and perform other compliance and enforcement inspection and analysis activities not classified elsewhere. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsCompliance Analysts9,22715%Compliance Officers8,38713%Compliance Specialists7,56312%Regulatory Affairs Specialists7,21112%Compliance Coordinators5,4279%Customs and Border Patrol Agents2,1153%Regulatory Specialists3,5816%Environmental Compliance Specialists2,4374%Compliance Professionals1,7183%Regulatory Analysts1,6053%Cargo Agents2,0883%Risk and Compliance Analysts1,4102%Compliance Associates1,7963%Regulatory Affairs Associates1,4522%IT Compliance Analysts1,2322%Regulatory Compliance Analysts1,5422%Compliance Consultants1,0622%Trade Compliance Specialists7701%Security Compliance Analysts1,0672%Regulatory Compliance Specialists1,2692%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsAuditing23,73230%Regulatory Compliance14,78219%Project Management11,87015%Regulatory Affairs8,45511%Finance7,2509%Accounting7,2069%Risk Management6,6208%Data Analysis6,3018%Risk Analysis6,1528%Marketing5,8047%Process Improvement5,5917%Internal Auditing4,9126%Financial Services4,4106%Compliance Risk4,3936%External Auditing4,0935%New Product Development3,7605%Compliance Management3,6145%Internal Controls3,4714%Pharmaceuticals3,4284%Workflow Management3,4034%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian18%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals11%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals9%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Depository Credit Intermediation3%Other51% 
Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists
$61,797
15,514
6%




Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists
									Median Salary: $61,797

									Job Postings: 15,514

									Projected Growth: 6%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionProbation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists provide social services to assist in rehabilitation of law offenders in custody or on probation or parole. Make recommendations for actions involving formulation of rehabilitation plan and treatment of offender, including conditional release and education and employment stipulations.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsProbation Officers2,87519%Probation and Parole Officers2,04113%Juvenile Probation Officers1,67811%Juvenile Justice Specialists1,1147%Correctional Counselors9196%Parole Officers6514%Adult Probation Officers5003%Corrections Specialists4063%Community Corrections Specialists1,3889%Correctional Treatment Specialist Case Managers4153%Correctional Probation Officers3792%Parole/Probation Specialists3472%Juvenile Counselors3082%Correctional Clinical Associates4763%Juvenile Specialists3772%Juvenile Officers3112%Juvenile Detention Specialists2852%Adult Probation and Parole Officers4163%Classification Officers4383%Deputy Probation Officers1901%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProbation6,43249%Social Work5,60143%Psychology4,18532%Criminal Corrections3,95830%Case Management3,29525%Sociology3,09424%Law Enforcement2,80521%Juvenile Justice2,68720%Legal Hearings2,56119%Mental Health2,33818%Substance Abuse1,82814%Rehabilitation1,80114%Human Services1,77213%Behavioral Science1,66313%Risk Analysis1,30710%Social Sciences1,30510%Criminology1,30010%Treatment Planning1,28410%Crisis Intervention1,27810%Juvenile Delinquency1,1649%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryState Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals52%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals45%Individual and Family Services1%Facilities Support Services1%Other Residential Care Facilities0%Social Advocacy Organizations0%Other0% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  About the Criminal Justice Major












  Criminal Justice Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Criminology Theory & Crime Control

			



Compare and contrast theoretical frameworks of juvenile delinquency and their strengths and weaknesses
Discuss social structure and social process theories of criminal behavior
Discuss bio-social theories of criminal behavior
Analyze the economics of crime
Apply U.S. philosophies of punishment and crime control and theories of offender treatment and rehabilitation to programs that utilize alternatives to incarceration
Analyze the deterrence and rational choice models of crime control in light of best evidence and scientific data
Evaluate theoretical frameworks for criminal behavior and control utilizing scientific and critical thinking skills







			
  Ethical Decision Making

			



Analyze various ethical issues and dilemmas in policing
Analyze various ethical issues and dilemmas in justice and law
Analyze various ethical issues and dilemmas in corrections and punishment
Apply ethical theories to specific criminal justice issues such as judicial activism, racial profiling, just wars, immigration, and other selected topics
Discuss ethics in criminal justice research







			
  Juvenile Justice, Delinquency & Corrections

			



Investigate the background of delinquent and unruly children in order to assist the court in determining the most appropriate disposition of each case
Supervise and coordinate daily juvenile routines such as phone calls, showers, and meals
Use approved physical restraint techniques and nonviolent crisis intervention in response to emergency situations
Implement appropriate interventions to allow positive learning experience for juveniles, while maintaining safety and security for juveniles and staff
Counsel and motivate juveniles in detention and treatment facilities
Assist juveniles in cultivating appropriate social, behavioral, and interpersonal skills and attitudes useful in community living
Perform case management and probation services for delinquent, unruly or deprived children
Identify gang issues, creating policy and program priorities, and drafting reports and plans







			
  Corrections, Probation, & Parole

			



Oversee and participate in the custody, security, and treatment of prisoners
Provide safe institutional operations in order to ensure the appropriate incarceration, treatment, and rehabilitation of inmates
Process legal and non-legal documentation such as medical instructions, commitment orders, summons, and legal writs
Conduct thorough inspections and searches of inmates, buildings, and grounds, intervening as necessary
Prepare documentation on institutional matters such as incident reports, disciplinary write-ups, counts, and logs
Process and release inmates, including taking photographs and obtaining a serviceable set of fingerprint impressions
Collect evidence and substances that provide the basis of criminal offenses or administrative violations
Conduct background investigations of probationers or parolees and make recommendations to the court, parole board, pardon board, or governor’s office
Ensure probationers are in compliance with court orders and provide direction to assist in the completion of probation requirements







			
  Law Enforcement

			



Protect the lives and property of citizens, providing for their welfare through crime-prevention activities and aggressive enforcement of laws and ordinances
Patrol roads, highways, businesses, and residential areas, enforcing criminal and traffic laws
Respond to a variety of calls including theft, juvenile complaints, family disputes, and traffic accidents
Investigate alleged or suspected violations of laws and regulations, documenting findings, formalizing reports, and determining action plans
Conduct in-depth investigations including background checks, public records searches, and surveillance
Provide leadership and assistance in the development and implementation of policing policies and procedures
Prepare for and participate in evidentiary hearings
Arrest criminal offenders, process reports and court documents, receive and serve court orders, and execute search and arrest warrants
	 







			
  Criminal Justice Leadership

			



Define management, organization, and leadership in the context of criminal justice
Compare and contrast open versus closed system models of management as they relate to criminal justice agencies
Analyze environmental influences that impact criminal justice agencies
Evaluate models of motivation and leadership
Evaluate the importance and models of ethical leadership in the criminal justice system
Evaluate a criminal justice agency, department, or program for its strengths and weaknesses and develop solutions and recommendations









  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.














  Criminal Justice Degree Frequently Asked Questions






		How long does it take to get a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Criminal Justice Administration degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




The bachelor of science in Criminal Justice Administration degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree program combines theory and practice with an understanding of criminal justice system administration, policies and management within these system components: law enforcement, corrections and the courts.




		What can you do with a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




With a B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of entry-level positions, including private security and investigations, as well as opportunities within the branches of criminal justice: law enforcement, corrections and the courts.




		Why get a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree, you'll be well-prepared for entry into and career advancement within state and federal criminal justice systems. As part of your coursework, you'll gain a deep understanding of the relationship between the different components of the criminal justice system, which, in turn, can help improve your performance and impact.




		What makes Franklin’s Criminal Justice Administration degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the criminal justice system themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Can You Get a Master's in Criminal Justice? 



Graduate Programs for Criminal Justice Majors: What Options Exist?



How to Get a Master’s in Criminal Justice



What Can I Do With a Degree in Criminal Justice?



Everything You Need To Know About a Master's Degree in Criminal Justice






  Related Programs




B.S. Emergency Management & Homeland Security
B.S. Public Administration
B.S. Public Relations
B.S. Public Safety Management & Leadership




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog