URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/bachelors/applied-management
Applied Management Degree | Bachelor of Science | Franklin.edu



















B.S. Applied Management
 

  

124Credit Hours76%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025
                                                              Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025
                                                              Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025
                                                              Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026
                                                              Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026
                                                              Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026
                                                              Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. AccreditationIACBE Accreditation InformationThe Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located  at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a listing of accredited programs, click here. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. Learn more >Transfer ToolRequest InfoApply Today

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Bachelor's Degrees
                /  
                                              Applied Management
                          

  Build a foundation for success with an applied management degree


The hallmark of every great business is great leadership. And great leadership is demonstrated by people who can keep up with or set trends, identify and resolve pressing problems, develop smart, adaptive solutions, and make decisions that lead to improved performance and profitability. With Franklin's transfer-friendly, degree completion Applied Management program, you’ll gain the theoretical foundation and practical know-how to move into management or start your own business.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  IACBE Accredited

Our program follows best-practice standards for business education.



  Finish Faster
Transfer up to 94 previously earned college credits.



  Hands-On Experience
Learn from true-to-life management simulations.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced business professionals.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.



  Accredited Online University
Nearly 80% of our students take online courses.









Program Overview




  Fast-track your way into business management

With our transfer-friendly, degree completion Applied Management degree program, you’ll gain the theoretical foundation and practical know-how to move into management or start your own business. Cultivate your expertise in each of the following areas: management and supervision, operations management, project management, strategic planning and finance.Get up to 60 hours of prior-learning credit and complete your degree program faster At Franklin, you’ll get credit for what you already know so you can earn your degree faster and lower your tuition costs. As an Applied Management major, you can transfer in up to 94 hours of previously earned college credits. The B.S. Applied Management program provides an opportunity for you to transfer up to 60 hours of prior learning credit including from more than 130 different technical disciplines including automotive technology, hospitality management, mechanical engineering technology, and restaurant and food service management.  Additionally, Franklin grants credit toward your degree for prior learning in the form of professional certifications, licensures and on the job-training. Gain experience with hands-on projects and industry standard toolsFranklin’s hands-on Applied Management projects include participating in a true-to-life simulation that mirrors management decision processes in a competitive environment. As a member of a larger team, you’ll help turn an unprofitable $40-million company around, learning to build the business, make key management decisions from each functional area, analyze financial statements, allocate resources, and balance competing demands.You’ll also gain practical experience with Microsoft® Project, the industry standard in project management software, and learn the critical skills required to build project plans and manage costs within a fixed budget.Learn from faculty who practice what they teachYou’ll learn from credentialed professionals who teach what they practice in their real-world careers, and reap the benefits of their years of experience in the field.Franklin’s Applied Management degree program is accredited by the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE), the leader in outcomes-based business education. That means with the Applied Management completion major at Franklin, you’ll receive a respected degree that is valued in the workplace.Earn your degree from a university built for busy adultsEarn your degree on your terms by taking classes 100% online.  Accredited and nonprofit, Franklin was built from the ground-up to satisfy the needs of adult learners. Our seamless transfer process and team of academic advisors will help ease your transition to becoming a student, while our flexible course schedules help to balance your education with work family and life. Get started on your future today.Read more >



Ericka Cole
B.S. Applied Management '22
"“This accomplishment is a full circle moment in my life, filled with hope, motivation, and joy. It's never too late to go after what you deem essential in your life! Flexible and centered around working adults, Franklin is the University to get back to achieving your education goals.”" 












  International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE)
The Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a list of accredited programs please view our IACBE member status page. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. For more information about the International Accreditation Council for Business Education, please click here or visit www.iacbe.org.










  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value B.S. Applied Management 




Choose Franklin's accredited B.S. Applied Management and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and budget.     







Keep the Credit You've Earned


74
AVG TRANSFER HOURS

On average, students transfer in 2/3 of the credits required.







Transfer MORE Credits, Pay LESS tuition*



$11,940
|
$20,298


Max Transfer Credits
Avg Transfer Credits

*$398 per credit, 124 Total Credits, 94 maximum transfer credits, 73 average transfer credits.








Have Credit? Save Time!


20
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Previously earned credit saves you time toward your degree. 


Completion time is calculated based on full-time status and average transfer hours.

×








Full-Time, One-Class-at-a-Time




Focus on one 6-week class at a time and maintain full-time status by taking 3 courses per term.


80% of the program can be completed by taking six-week course, one class at a time

×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×







Curriculum & Course Descriptions



				124 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.
OR MATH 160 - College Algebra (4)
This course is designed to prepare students for Applied Calculus and Discrete Mathematics and to provide the mathematical background needed for the analytic reasoning used in other courses. Topics include functions and their graphs, including exponential and logarithmic functions; complex numbers; systems of equations and inequalities; matrices; basic principles of counting and probability; and other selected topics. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


																					AND																			

Choose either MATH 140 Introduction to Quantitative Reasoning or MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite to MATH 215. Choose MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite for MATH 160. Course can count as a University Elective.




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							



ECON 220 - Introduction to Macroeconomics (4)
An introduction to economic theory involving the basic underlying causes and principles of the operation of an economic system. Emphasis is placed on studying the economy as a whole. Issues of inflation, unemployment, taxation, business cycles and growth are discussed in the context of the global economic system.


																					AND																			


											2 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Anthropology, Geography, History, Political Science, Psychology, or Sociology disciplines.
										




								Arts & Humanities							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.


																					AND																			

ENG 205 - Business & Professional Writing (4)
This is an advanced composition course focusing on writing for business and professional purposes. Students will review the writing conventions commonly expected within business and professional environments, as well as strategies for analyzing rhetorical situations within those environments. Coursework includes analysis, revision, and research exercises, as well as substantial practice in composing business correspondence. The final project is an extensive, researched business proposal developed in stages and presented to the class. Students will be encouraged to relate course materials to their major programs and workplace experiences.





				Major Foundational			




ACCT 202 - Financial/Managerial Acct for Non-Majors (4)
This course is an introduction to financial and managerial accounting.  It is designed for non-accounting majors.  Financial accounting emphasizes how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business's performance and position for users external to management.  It emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information. The course also examines the major elements of the financial statements. The managerial accounting portion of the course studies internal reporting and decision-making. The course assists those who wish to learn "what the numbers mean" in a clear, concise and conceptual manner without focusing on the mechanical aspects of the accounting process.


BSAD 220 - Business Law (4)
A study of the everyday legal problems encountered in business with emphasis on the areas of legal procedure, contracts, agency, employment law, business organizations and torts, with cases relating to these and other areas.


ECON 210 - Introduction to Microeconomics (4)
An introduction to economic theory involving the examination of how decision making by firms and individuals is shaped by economic forces. Emphasis is placed on demand, supply, market equilibrium analysis, and basic market structure models. The invisible hand as the driving force for economic decisions as well as market externalities are discussed. The class concentrates on providing a balanced approach to studying economic agents' behavior and the global implications and outcomes.


FINA 301 - Principles of Finance (4)
This course is designed to survey the field of finance and provide the foundation for more advanced finance coursework. Topics include sources of business and financial information, financial statement analysis, the time value of money, the nature and measurement of risk, financial institutions, investments and corporate finance.


MGMT 312 - Principles of Management (4)
This course explores the basic concepts and processes of management. Students will explore the functional roles and processes of planning, leading, organizing, and controlling comprising the manager role. Students develop skills related to the manager function that are required in today's competitive environment.


MKTG 300 - Marketing (4)
Theory, strategies and methods are foundational to the informed practice of marketing. Students investigate the importance of marketing to an organization or cause, the interrelationship of the difference phases of marketing, the marketing of goods versus services, analysis and identification of markets, pricing strategies and digital marketing tactics.


																					AND																			

Completion of ACCT 215 - Financial Accounting & ACCT 225 - Managerial Accounting can fulfill the ACCT 202 requirement.





				Major Area Required			




At least 2 of the following courses:
AMGT 440 - Project and Team Management (4)
The focus of this course is on the effective management of projects and the teams responsible for project implementation. This course covers the fundamental theory and practice of project management in an organizational setting. Students learn to apply knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques necessary for effective functioning in a project environment. The course will also provide insights into the management processes related to project team development as well as the project team lifecycle and its dynamics. Accordingly, activities and assignments in this course are designed in alignment with the Project Management Institute?s PMBOK? Guide to help students understand the nature of successful project planning and execution, as well as project team formation and management.  Completion of this course can be used as one of the qualifications needed to apply for the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification exam (35 hours of project management education/training).  
OR AMGT 450 - Organizational Supervision (4)
This course is designed to provide the framework and foundation of what it takes to be a first line manager or supervisor. Students will be introduced to the many skills required of a supervisor such as planning and controlling activities to accomplish organizational goals. Areas such as communication, ethical decision-making, conflict management, interpersonal relations and employee development will be explored.
OR ENTR 395 - Foundations of Entrepreneurship (4)
Foundations of Entrepreneurship is an introductory course that examines the theory, practice, and tools of entrepreneurship. Various entrepreneurship structures and how such structures result in different unique pathways to success are explored. Students will focus on the importance of developing an entrepreneurial mindset as they assess their individual values and determine their affinity for entrepreneurial thinking, while also reviewing the risks and rewards of entrepreneurial businesses in the context of their chosen entrepreneurial philosophy. Finally, students will identify and evaluate opportunities for new ventures, and consider a strategic approach for successful business plan development.
OR OSCM 390 - Operations Management (4)
This course instructs students on how manufacturing and service operations contribute to organizational strategy. Concepts such as productivity, economies of scale, vertical and horizontal integration, and push vs. pull will be explained. Implications of applying "Green" policies to materials and processes will be explained.


																					AND																			

BSAD 495 - Business Administration Capstone (4)
This course serves as the Capstone for the Business Administration major. The purpose of the course is to integrate all prior learning in business administration, related coursework, and workplace experiences to individually assess an organization. This is a time intensive team-oriented simulation course and it is recommended that students take this course at the end of their business program and as a stand-alone course. Three major components comprise the course: the strategic analysis of an organization; the development of a forward-looking strategy with competitive, ethical, and global considerations; and the development of an implementation plan.





				Technical Credit			





											10 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Transfer related coursework, certificates, micro-credentials, certifications, credentials, licenses, or career and technical programs (AMGT)
										





				Major Electives			





											12 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											ACCT, AMGT, BSAD, COMM, ECON, EGMT, ENTR, FINA, FPLN, HCM, HIM, HRM, MGMT, MKTG, OSCM, PBRL, PSYC, PUAD, RMI, SPM, excluding levels 100-200
										


																					AND																			

Or additional transfer related coursework, certificates, micro-credentials, certifications, credentials, licenses, or career and technical programs (AMGT).





				University Electives			





											30 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











  Academic Minors




Personalize your degree with a minor. Explore available minors, learn how minors can benefit you, and find out what requirements you must meet to earn a minor.Learn More







  B.S. Applied Management Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the B.S. Applied Management matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.







Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Patrick Brobeck
State of Ohio Attorney General's Office
Deputy Director Quality Assur.


Carmen Daniels
Columbus State Community College
Dean, Business + Eng. Tech.


Angela Fernandez
Sinclair Community College
Interim Dean


Dan Fuline
Stark State College
Dept. Chair Mgmt. + Mktg.


Jacqueline Hagerott, Esq.
Hocking College
VP Student Affairs


Toni Johnson
North Central State College
Dean of Academic Services


Roger Kisiel
Rax Restaurant Inc.
Retired Executive


Michael Pfahl
Owens Community College
Dean, Bus. Inf. + Public Serv.


Cara Rex
Rhodes State College
Chair of Business Dept.


John Stinnett
 JP Morgan Chase
VP, Senior Prg. Manager


John Torpey
American Electric Power
Retired








Employment Outlook





10%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Business & Leadership are expected to increase by 10%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Purchasing Managers
$136,386
59,738
9%




Purchasing Managers
									Median Salary: $136,386

									Job Postings: 59,738

									Projected Growth: 9%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionPurchasing Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the activities of buyers, purchasing officers, and related workers involved in purchasing materials, products, and services. Includes wholesale or retail trade merchandising managers and procurement managers.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsPurchasing Managers12,33721%Procurement Managers10,30617%Strategic Sourcing Managers4,9328%Sourcing Managers4,0657%Directors of Procurement3,4606%Procurement Coordinators3,9907%Commodity Managers3,0735%Procurement Category Managers1,8043%Category Managers1,9953%Directors of Purchasing2,1624%Directors of Global Sourcing1,0412%Supply Chain Procurement Managers1,5263%Procurement Sourcing Managers1,0892%Purchasing Supervisors1,7353%Harvest Managers1,2522%Procurement Project Managers1,0592%Purchasing Administrators1,0722%Directors of Strategic Sourcing1,0362%Indirect Procurement Managers9432%Procurement Administrators8611%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProcurement36,15965%Purchasing29,10753%Supply Chain21,60839%Finance14,46026%Project Management14,34826%Strategic Sourcing13,32224%Supplier Relationship Management10,34919%Supply Chain Management9,78018%Supplier Performance Management9,69218%Request For Proposal9,55417%Continuous Improvement Process9,04316%Contract Management8,00514%Contract Negotiation7,79714%Procurement Management7,29013%Category Management7,22713%Strategic Procurement7,18613%Supplier Management6,97113%Accounting6,66812%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)6,61712%Process Improvement6,38712%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement of Companies and Enterprises18%Federal Government, Civilian9%Federal Government, Military5%Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing4%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals3%Scientific Research and Development Services3%Other59% 
General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 
Management Analysts
$99,424
157,111
15%




Management Analysts
									Median Salary: $99,424

									Job Postings: 157,111

									Projected Growth: 15%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionManagement Analysts conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Analysts82,04352%IT Business Analysts10,1296%Program Analysts9,4876%Business Data Analysts6,1864%Business Process Analysts5,2363%Business Operations Analysts5,2143%Analytics Managers4,9953%Lead Business Analysts3,6152%Business Consultants4,0333%Salesforce Business Analysts3,3272%Management Analysts3,5012%Business Information Consultants2,5752%Management and Program Analysts2,7372%Servicenow Business Analysts2,2812%Business Services Analysts2,0381%Solutions Consultants1,7511%Independent Operators2,7852%Business Process Consultants1,7041%Business Solutions Analysts1,7411%Business Information Analysts1,7331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management61,84029%Business Process46,16222%Data Analysis45,85022%Business Requirements37,22318%SQL (Programming Language)34,89417%Finance32,02215%Agile Methodology31,06915%Business Analysis30,36214%Process Improvement28,82514%Workflow Management26,85413%Computer Science25,28612%Accounting21,25310%Marketing19,5149%Change Management18,6779%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)17,4618%Auditing17,3928%Dashboard16,8498%Scrum (Software Development)16,0068%Management Consulting15,9118%User Story15,7047%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services26%Federal Government, Civilian9%Computer Systems Design and Related Services7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Insurance Carriers5%Other42% 
Business Operations Specialists, All Other
$79,581
31,208
10%




Business Operations Specialists, All Other
									Median Salary: $79,581

									Job Postings: 31,208

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionBusiness Operations Specialists, All Other all business operations specialists not listed separately.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsE-Commerce Managers3,89613%E-Commerce Specialists3,97313%Sustainability Consultants2,0557%Cybersecurity Consultants2,2537%Sustainability Specialists1,8326%Sustainability Analysts1,8356%E-Commerce Associates2,3388%Sustainability Managers1,4485%Strategic Business Partners1,5705%Sustainability Advisors1,6685%E-Commerce Analysts9663%E-Commerce Assistants1,2434%E-Commerce Supervisors1,0033%Directors of E-Commerce1,0844%Sustainability Coordinators8623%E-Commerce Marketing Managers6392%E-Commerce Clerks8083%Sustainability Engineers4752%Energy and Sustainability Managers7582%Security Consultants5022%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsMarketing8,50225%Project Management6,75620%E-Commerce5,43116%Merchandising3,90411%Data Analysis3,71111%Auditing3,56310%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)3,32610%Cyber Security3,25810%Finance2,9359%Computer Science2,7658%Analytics2,7288%Digital Marketing2,5247%Environmental Social And Corporate Governance (ESG)2,4397%Search Engine Optimization2,4147%Continuous Improvement Process2,2827%New Product Development2,1136%Accounting1,9946%Warehousing1,9786%User Experience (UX)1,9616%Business Development1,8936%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian18%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services5%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals3%Other60% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.




Knowledge & Skillsets


Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Supervision & Management

			



Supervise and assist employees, ensuring that individuals remain on task, fulfill work requirements, and receive adequate and appropriate supervision and support
Provide day-to-day organizational support and supervision, including operational oversight and administrative functions
Manage to resolve work-related staffing and conflict issues to improve overall performance
Assist business units during organizational change initiatives to ensure buy-in that increases efficiency and service
Implement learning and development programs that improve individual competencies and team performance to facilitate employee growth and productivity
Manage and optimize the workflow, processes, and procedures to increase organizational competitive advantage
Provide new employee orientation, mentoring, and assessment to assure proper transition into the organization
Administer policies and guidelines, representing the company in an ethical, moral, and professional manner







			
  Operations Management

			



Assist in the planning and implementation of strategic initiatives that include projects, new product development, plans, and programs to achieve short-and long-term business objectives
Develop and execute processes and procedures for fulfilling internal and external customer demands
Provide insight and strategic counsel to senior leadership regarding financial and operational issues
Participate in strategic decision making and manage the execution of defined strategies
Collaborate in defining, organizing, and prioritizing portfolio initiatives that contribute the overall success of the organization
Build rapport with vendors and other suppliers
Understand and apply various inventory control techniques







			
  Project Management

			



Determine scope, identify and allocate resources, assign responsibilities and tasks, and set timelines and budget for a project
Manage day-to-day operational aspects of projects, ensuring adherence to schedule, budget, and standards used by project team members
Interact with clients to assure that client expectations are met
Create solutions, maintain data, and generate reports using software and tools such as Project, Excel, PowerPoint, and CAD/CAM
Oversee project change management process in accordance with predefined process
Create and maintain project implementation documentation, such as risk mitigation plans, design documents, project budget, project change orders, and status reports







			
  Strategic Planning

			



Identify opportunities and implement business plans and growth strategies
Effectively deliver a business case in support of strategic objectives and better ROI
Build a pipeline of business initiatives that will maximize business and financial growth opportunities
Assist in developing business plans, short-range plans, and weekly plans for managing operating constraints, maximizing throughput, and optimizing production and profitability
Drive integrated business planning cycles in collaboration with stakeholders needs
Create processes to manage and track business performance, including profitability and growth
Deliver data-driven analytics and insights to support actionable strategies, prioritization, and communication
Apply SWOT analyses and other planning techniques to evaluate markets
Develop business plans and strategies that attract potential investors to your business







			
  Accounting & Finance

			



Create and manage a budget based on business drivers, policies, and procedures
Leverage business and financial models and tools in assessing costs, revenues, margins, and opportunities for growth
Maintain accounting standards, ensuring compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
Identify business trends and address performance issues using management information tools and financial reporting analyses
Provide management with costing reports and insight to support change in resource allocations, work methods, and materials
Analyze general ledger accounts to ensure accuracy and gain key business insights
Ensure that productivity numbers, sales, and budgets are met and that reconciliations and analyses are accurate
Monitor the general ledger for proper mapping of inventory transactions, revenue accounts, and billing department activities
Collaborate with various functional areas to ensure that financial objectives are met









  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.













Frequently Asked Questions





		How long does it take to get an Applied Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Applied Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you take online or onsite classes and choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor for the start date that's best for you.




		How much will my Applied Management degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Applied Management degree?
		


Franklin University's B.S. Applied Management is a four-year undergraduate degree program. You can start from scratch or build on a previously earned technical associate degree. Franklin University's B.S. Applied Management is transfer friendly and can accommodate up to 94 hours of transfer credit in more than 130 disciplines - including up to 32 hours of earned technical credits.




		What can you do with an Applied Management degree?
		




With a B.S. Applied Management from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared with the knowledge, skills and tools to excel in a supervisory or management role. Our online bachelor's degree program focuses on both foundational and functional competencies to better prepare you to become a strong leader.




		Why get an Applied Management degree?
		




When you graduate from Franklin's B.S. Applied Management degree program, you'll possess both the technical expertise in your field, as well as in-demand managerial skills to help take you to the next level of leadership.




		What makes Franklin’s Applied Management degree unique?
		


While transfer credit isn’t an admission requirement for Franklin’s program, you can take advantage of certifications, licensures, and on-the-job training and get up to 32 hours of technical credit toward you degree - an option many four-year universities don’t offer. That means you can get credit for what you already know -- and earn your degree even faster.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Is a Public Health Degree Worth It?



What Can You Do With a Data Science Degree?



Top 8 Benefits of a Bachelor’s Degree



What Are the Highest Paying Jobs With a Bachelor’s Degree?



How to Become a Teacher Without an Education Degree






  Related Programs




B.S. Business Administration
B.S. Communications
B.S. Entrepreneurship
B.S. Management & Leadership




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog