URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/bachelors/analytics/healthcare-analytics
Online Health Data Analytics Degree | B.S. Analytics Healthcare | Franklin.edu



















B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus
 

  120Credit Hours75%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% onlineNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Transfer CreditRequest InfoApply Today Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Bachelor's Degrees
                /  
                                              Analytics
                /  
                                              Healthcare Analytics
                          

  Infuse data into vital decisions with a healthcare analytics degree


The analytics field provides an opportunity to make a difference in healthcare for professionals seeking alternatives to traditional patient care roles. Like any business, healthcare organizations are looking for ways to improve results, enhance services and lower costs. Franklin’s online B.S. Analytics with a focus in Healthcare Analytics provides comprehensive training in healthcare management, informatics and systems. This unique learning pathway provides you with the opportunity to impact change at the intersection of data, healthcare and technology. 


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  In-Demand Skills
Achieve proficiency with SQL, Python, R and Tableau.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced analytics professionals. 











  B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus Overview





  Acquire broad knowledge in fundamentals including industry-standard tools

Ten major area courses, which are common to all three of the B.S. Business Analytics focus areas, help you build broad knowledge in fundamentals including: statistics, mathematics for analytics, ethics, communication, databases, programming, cybersecurity, analytics modeling, data visualization and machine learning. Hands-on assignments provide opportunities to gain skills in SQL, Python, R and Tableau, as well as other tools. Regardless of which focus area you choose, as student in the program, you’ll learn to apply analytics methods and tools in problem-solving, use business domain knowledge and data for decision-making, illustrate and present insights to a broad audience, analyze potential biases and ethical implications in various contexts, and implement best practices in management to optimize performance or protect sensitive data. Complement major area courses with eight focus area courses in healthcare analytics and tailor your B.S. in Analytics to your career interests. Through projects that integrate real-world healthcare industry challenges into your coursework, you’ll gain comprehensive training in healthcare management, informatics and systems. Use data in healthcare settings to impact outcomes, services and policiesBe prepared to work at the intersection of healthcare, technology and data and be a contributing factor to significant societal impact. The specialized nature of the B.S. Analytics with a focus in Healthcare Analytics provides you with the necessary analytics skills to apply data insights directly within the healthcare industry to improve patient outcomes, optimize healthcare services and inform healthcare policies. Reap career benefits by learning to combine the power of data with the vital aspects of healthcareBuild your career by learning the basics: foundational knowledge of the healthcare sector, including medical terms and legal issues. Combine healthcare essentials with courses in health informatics and information systems, to help you acquire skills in managing healthcare information, which is an in-demand skill given the increasing digitization of healthcare records.  Lastly, the ability to apply analytics in a healthcare context, will prepare you to excel in the rapidly growing healthcare field. Read more >






  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value B.S. Analytics




Choose Franklin's accredited B.S. Analytics and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and budget.     







Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$47,760
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Keep the Credit You've Earned


90
MAX TRANSFER HOURS

Transfer up to 75% of required credits to finish faster and spend less.


Students must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree.

×








Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Instructor Led




Online courses taught by in-field experts = a winning combo for you.






Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×








  B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus Courses & Curriculum




				120 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 160 - College Algebra (4)
This course is designed to prepare students for Applied Calculus and Discrete Mathematics and to provide the mathematical background needed for the analytic reasoning used in other courses. Topics include functions and their graphs, including exponential and logarithmic functions; complex numbers; systems of equations and inequalities; matrices; basic principles of counting and probability; and other selected topics. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


																					AND																			

Take MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite and earn a minimum grade of “C". Course can count as a University elective.




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from Anthropology, Economics, Geography, History, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology.  Must select at least two different disciplines to meet requirements.
										




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Arts & Humanities							



HUMN 211 - Introduction to Critical Ethics (2)
Critical Ethics uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition. Accordingly, the goal of this course is to help the student improve his/her ethical analysis and evaluation skills to help the student do the thing that must be done, when it ought to be done, using critical thinking.


																					AND																			


											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.


																					AND																			

ENG 220 - Research Writing: Exploring Professional Identities (4)
This is an intermediate course focusing on the composition of research papers. Students in this course prepare to be active participants in professional discourse communities by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their own fields of study and work. By calling attention to the conventions of disciplinary writing, the course also prepares students for upper-division college writing and the special conventions of advanced academic discourse. Course activities include three extended research papers, semi-formal writing addressing interdisciplinary communication, and readings fostering critical engagement with disciplinary conversations.


PF 106 - Introduction to Spreadsheets (1)
This course focuses on using spreadsheets to solve business problems.


MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.


BUSA 200 - Database Fundamentals (2)
This introductory course focuses on applying information technology to business strategies using databases. The student will gain a working knowledge of current database technology, including relational database concepts, database design, data extraction, and data warehousing while working with database applications.





				Major Area Required			




BUSA 250 - SQL for Business (2)
This course introduces data analytics using Structured Query Language (SQL). Students will learn how to apply SQL in data exploration analysis and business problem-solving.


COMP 101 - Problem Solving With Computing (2)
Many organizations today utilize computers and information systems to store, organize, analyze, and summarize data to solve problems.  As a result, computing is a tool that can benefit students in many different fields.  At the heart of solving problems with computers is the study of structured thinking using algorithms.  This course is designed for students with no prior programming experience and teaches the building blocks of algorithms, including variables, expressions, selection and repetition structures, functions and parameters, and array processing.


DATA 300 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course introduces the fundamentals of Business and Data Analytics. Students will learn business problem framing, data wrangling, descriptive and inferential statistics, data visualization, and data storytelling in analytics.


DATA 310 - Data Visualization (4)
This course introduces data visualization fundamentals using the leading visualization tools in the industry and focuses on project-based learning. Students will learn how to develop dashboards and discover insight effectively based on data.


BUSA 350 - Principles of Analytics Modeling (4)
This course introduces the principles of analytics modeling. Students will learn exploratory data analytics, regression, classification, clustering, model interpretation, and model evaluation.


DATA 400 - Principles of Machine Learning (4)
Students will learn the basic concepts behind major machine learning algorithms, the essential steps for creating a typical machine learning model, the strengths and weaknesses of different algorithms, and the model evaluation using different performance metrics. Eventually, students will be able to build a prediction model by machine learning algorithm using Python language. The common problems in practical machine learning exercises and their solutions also will be discussed.


DATA 450 - Advanced Topics in Analytics (4)
This course covers advanced analytics topics, including big-data analytics using popular platforms, model interpretation strategies, simulations, optimizations, and analytics reporting and presentation methods. A discussion of ethical considerations for model evaluation is also included.


DATA 495 - Analytics Capstone (4)
The purpose of this capstone course is to assess students' ability to synthesize and integrate the knowledge and skills they have developed throughout their coursework. The course provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate competency in the key domains of analytics through a comprehensive project that includes problem framing, data preparation, data visualization, data analysis, model development, model interpretation, and report presentation


MATH 254 - Mathematics for Data Analytics (4)
This course introduces fundamental concepts from calculus and linear algebra providing foundations for mathematical modeling. It also covers some statistics topics beyond an introductory level including several discrete probability distributions, and continuous probability distributions with a calculus lens. The focus is not on proof nor on excessive hand computations; instead, it is on employing and relating mathematics to real-world situations. Concepts are made concrete through visual and numerical computation with the help of programming tools. 


CYSC 250 - Cybersecurity for the Professions (4)
This course is a breadth-based cybersecurity course for non-technical majors. It aims to equip a bachelor?s degree seeker with no prior cybersecurity knowledge, other than what the newspaper reports say, with essential cybersecurity knowledge. The course introduces organizational, people, and technological aspects of cybersecurity. More specifically, it covers (1) governance, standards, and risk management topics in the organizational domain, (2) security awareness, privacy, ethics and cyber threats in the people domain, and (3) cyberspace, critical sectors, and emerging topics in the technological domain.





				Focus Area			



Applied Data Science:

COMP 204 - Principles of Computer Networks (2)
This course serves as an introduction to the function, design, administration, and implementation of computer networks. Topics include network infrastructure, architecture, protocols, applications, and the OSI networking model. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).
DATA 250 - Analytics Programming (4)
This course introduces the essential general programming concepts and?techniques to analytics students. The goal is to equip the students with the?necessary programming skill in analytics problem-solving. Topics include?boolean, numbers, loops, function, debugging,?Python's specifics?(such as NumPy,?Pandas,?Jupyter?notebook), R's specifics?(such as list,?data frame, factor, apply,?RMarkdown),?the process of?data retrieving, cleaning,?integrating, transforming, and enriching to support analytics.
DATA 430 - Data Engineering?Technologies (4)
This?course covers fundamental methods and?widely-used technologies?in?data engineering. Topics include application programming interface (API),?web scraping, Extract Transform Load (ETL), and analytics at-scale using?PySpark.?
CLOUD 200 - Cloud Fundamentals (2)
This course explores the concepts of cloud computing, including financial impacts and business value, financial requirements, deployment, risks, and security. Hands-on exercises help students to gain experience with cloud computing environments, identifying technical and security requirements for given deployment scenarios, implementing the proposed cloud deployment scenario, and troubleshooting technical issues of existing cloud computing scenarios.
MIS 310 - Info Systems Architecture & Technology (4)
This course provides a conceptual survey of general systems theory followed by a conceptual and technological survey of the structure of distributed information systems architectures, operating systems, network operating systems, peripheral technology and user interfaces. Interoperability between these architectural components will be explored and current technology and trends in each architectural element will be reviewed. This course will de-emphasize, although not ignore, mainframe architectures in favor of information architectures more applicable to client/server computing. The various interacting categories of client/server computing as well as the benefits and implications of such a system will be fully explored.
ITEC 430 - Information Technology Project Management (4)
This course provides an introduction to the concepts of information technology project management and techniques for initiating, planning, executing, monitoring, and controlling of resources to accomplish specific project goals. Both technical and behavioral aspects of project management are discussed. While the focus is on information technology projects, the principles follow the nine project management knowledge areas obtained in the Project Management Institute's?PMBOK?Guide, Third Edition?and, thus, are applicable to the management of any project. Topics will include integration, scope, time, cost, quality, human resource, communications, risk, and procurement management. Project management software utilization is emphasized.
DATA 415 - Data Warehouse Architecture (4)
Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to design and implement data gathering processes and data warehouse architectures appropriate for supporting data mining and business analytics modeling applicable to the solving of typical operational, supply and demand problems encountered by organizations. Learning will be supported by relevant texts, lectures, research papers, collaboration sessions and projects, both individual and team-based.


																					OR																			
Business Analytics:

ACCT 202 - Financial/Managerial Acct for Non-Majors (4)
This course is an introduction to financial and managerial accounting.  It is designed for non-accounting majors.  Financial accounting emphasizes how general purpose financial statements communicate information about the business's performance and position for users external to management.  It emphasizes how the accountant processes and presents the information. The course also examines the major elements of the financial statements. The managerial accounting portion of the course studies internal reporting and decision-making. The course assists those who wish to learn "what the numbers mean" in a clear, concise and conceptual manner without focusing on the mechanical aspects of the accounting process.
BSAD 220 - Business Law (4)
A study of the everyday legal problems encountered in business with emphasis on the areas of legal procedure, contracts, agency, employment law, business organizations and torts, with cases relating to these and other areas.
ECON 210 - Introduction to Microeconomics (4)
An introduction to economic theory involving the examination of how decision making by firms and individuals is shaped by economic forces. Emphasis is placed on demand, supply, market equilibrium analysis, and basic market structure models. The invisible hand as the driving force for economic decisions as well as market externalities are discussed. The class concentrates on providing a balanced approach to studying economic agents' behavior and the global implications and outcomes.
FINA 301 - Principles of Finance (4)
This course is designed to survey the field of finance and provide the foundation for more advanced finance coursework. Topics include sources of business and financial information, financial statement analysis, the time value of money, the nature and measurement of risk, financial institutions, investments and corporate finance.
MGMT 312 - Principles of Management (4)
This course explores the basic concepts and processes of management. Students will explore the functional roles and processes of planning, leading, organizing, and controlling comprising the manager role. Students develop skills related to the manager function that are required in today's competitive environment.
MKTG 300 - Marketing (4)
Theory, strategies and methods are foundational to the informed practice of marketing. Students investigate the importance of marketing to an organization or cause, the interrelationship of the difference phases of marketing, the marketing of goods versus services, analysis and identification of markets, pricing strategies and digital marketing tactics.


																					OR																			
Healthcare Analytics:

HCM 210 - Healthcare Foundations (2)
This course will provide fundamental information regarding health, healthcare, and the healthcare delivery system. Students will become familiar with the various types of healthcare organizations, stakeholders, and healthcare issues in order to shape their understanding of the different components of the healthcare delivery system. Through the exploration of health information, students will discuss and analyze the role healthcare professions play within healthcare.
HIM 150 - Medical Terminology (2)
This course will introduce the foundations of medical terminology nomenclature and use. Emphasis will be on the fundamentals of prefix, word root, and suffix linkages to build a broad medical vocabulary.
HIM 200 - Introduction to Health Information Management (2)
Students are introduced to the roles of the health information management (HIM) professional in a variety of healthcare settings. The educational and credentialing requirements for the HIM professional will be discussed along with an overview of the U.S. healthcare delivery system, and the various reporting and accrediting requirements.
HIM 320 - Health Data (4)
This course introduces students to various types, definitions, relationships, uses, and interpretations of data derived from healthcare functions and processes. Students will explore information standards and representations of health data that are commonly used for patient care, reporting, reimbursement, and quality improvement programs.
HIM 350 - Health Informatics (4)
This course will cover the history of health informatics, design and challenges of informatics infrastructure, and current issues.  Topics will include HIPAA and other legislation, application of electronic health records, and other clinical and administrative applications of health information systems.
HIM 470 - Health Information Systems (4)
This course examines healthcare organizations from the perspective of managing the information systems that exist within the enterprise. Identifying the clinical and healthcare delivery processes and how they relate to information systems is a main focus. The intent of the course is to identify the key issues confronting the management of healthcare information systems today, examine their causes, and develop reasonable solutions to these issues. Specific federal regulations, vendor solutions, and financial implications as they relate to healthcare information systems are also examined.
HIM 485 - Applications in Health Info Systems (2)
This course will require the student to apply Health Information Management software, tools, and techniques to authentic healthcare situations and problems.  Emphasis will be on the applications of electronic health records, common data tools and reports, and the appropriate analysis for decision-making.
HCM 442 - Legal Aspects of Healthcare Management (4)
Understanding cultural competency, ethics, policy, and law is necessary for healthcare professionals in a continuously evolving healthcare system. This course will provide students with practical knowledge and methods for applying ethical, legal, and cultural decision-making frameworks to mitigate risks. Topics will include regulatory compliance, patient consent, privacy and confidentiality, and cultural competence.





				University Electives			





											17 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











  Academic Minors




Personalize your degree with a minor. Explore available minors, learn how minors can benefit you, and find out what requirements you must meet to earn a minor.Learn More







  B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the B.S. Analytics matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.










Employment Outlook





15%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Data & Analytics are expected to increase by 15%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Information Security Analysts
$120,370
63,767
31%




Information Security Analysts
									Median Salary: $120,370

									Job Postings: 63,767

									Projected Growth: 31%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionInformation Security Analysts plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information. Assess system vulnerabilities for security risks and propose and implement risk mitigation strategies. May ensure appropriate security controls are in place that will safeguard digital files and vital electronic infrastructure. May respond to computer security breaches and viruses. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsCybersecurity Analysts10,49717%Information Security Analysts9,45915%Information Systems Security Officers12,36219%IT Auditors4,6727%Cybersecurity Specialists4,1477%Auditors5,0388%IT Security Analysts1,7513%Information Security Specialists2,0433%Security Analysts1,4052%Subject Matter Experts1,8033%Incident Response Analysts1,3032%Security Specialists1,4622%Incident Managers9332%Information Security Officers1,1032%Security Operations Center Analysts1,0622%Incident Response Managers9342%Cyber Defense Analysts9241%Security Operations Analysts1,0472%Cyber Threat Hunters7851%Audit Supervisors1,0372%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsCyber Security26,55049%Auditing20,50838%Vulnerability16,55930%Computer Science14,76027%Incident Response14,05826%Information Systems12,31623%Risk Analysis12,08022%Security Controls9,55618%Risk Management9,20117%IT Security8,74716%Firewall8,41115%Security Information And Event Management (SIEM)7,96915%Operating Systems7,96315%Cyber Threat Intelligence7,33713%Project Management6,86313%Linux6,66612%Information Assurance6,55812%Information Systems Security5,96211%Network Security5,91911%Security Requirements Analysis5,46310%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services22%Management of Companies and Enterprises8%Depository Credit Intermediation6%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services6%Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services6%Scientific Research and Development Services4%Other48% 
Computer Systems Analysts
$103,792
100,703
14%




Computer Systems Analysts
									Median Salary: $103,792

									Job Postings: 100,703

									Projected Growth: 14%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Systems Analysts analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to develop and implement solutions to complex applications problems, system administration issues, or network concerns. Perform systems management and integration functions, improve existing computer systems, and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and schedule limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Systems Analysts30,87931%Systems Analysts19,86520%Technical Business Analysts5,6336%Technical Analysts4,2874%Configuration Analysts5,1075%IT Analysts3,2403%Healthcare Data Analysts2,5163%IT Systems Analysts2,4352%Utilization Review Nurses2,9023%SAP Solution Architects1,9142%IT Business Systems Analysts2,2842%Applications Systems Analysts2,6123%Computer Systems Analysts2,8693%Configuration Management Analysts2,4803%Information Systems Analysts2,3812%Systems Support Analysts1,9082%Configuration Management Specialists2,4422%Utilization Management Managers1,9502%Healthcare Analysts1,2841%Configuration Specialists1,7152%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsSystems Analysis28,29622%Project Management28,07522%Computer Science27,47421%SQL (Programming Language)24,88319%Workflow Management21,66917%Business Requirements21,51317%Business Process20,98916%Business Systems Analysis20,48716%Data Analysis18,90715%Agile Methodology17,67114%Auditing17,60314%Information Systems15,35812%Process Improvement12,76810%Technical Support11,6599%Automation11,0739%Finance10,5518%Change Management9,2957%Business Systems9,1027%Medical Records9,0067%Business Analysis8,6937%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services23%Management of Companies and Enterprises11%Insurance Carriers5%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals4%Depository Credit Intermediation4%Employment Services4%Other51% 
Management Analysts
$99,424
157,111
15%




Management Analysts
									Median Salary: $99,424

									Job Postings: 157,111

									Projected Growth: 15%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionManagement Analysts conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Analysts82,04352%IT Business Analysts10,1296%Program Analysts9,4876%Business Data Analysts6,1864%Business Process Analysts5,2363%Business Operations Analysts5,2143%Analytics Managers4,9953%Lead Business Analysts3,6152%Business Consultants4,0333%Salesforce Business Analysts3,3272%Management Analysts3,5012%Business Information Consultants2,5752%Management and Program Analysts2,7372%Servicenow Business Analysts2,2812%Business Services Analysts2,0381%Solutions Consultants1,7511%Independent Operators2,7852%Business Process Consultants1,7041%Business Solutions Analysts1,7411%Business Information Analysts1,7331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management61,84029%Business Process46,16222%Data Analysis45,85022%Business Requirements37,22318%SQL (Programming Language)34,89417%Finance32,02215%Agile Methodology31,06915%Business Analysis30,36214%Process Improvement28,82514%Workflow Management26,85413%Computer Science25,28612%Accounting21,25310%Marketing19,5149%Change Management18,6779%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)17,4618%Auditing17,3928%Dashboard16,8498%Scrum (Software Development)16,0068%Management Consulting15,9118%User Story15,7047%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services26%Federal Government, Civilian9%Computer Systems Design and Related Services7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Insurance Carriers5%Other42% 
Network and Computer Systems Administrators
$95,347
102,148
8%




Network and Computer Systems Administrators
									Median Salary: $95,347

									Job Postings: 102,148

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators install, configure, and maintain an organization’s local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), data communications network, operating systems, and physical and virtual servers. Perform system monitoring and verify the integrity and availability of hardware, network, and server resources and systems. Review system and application logs and verify completion of scheduled jobs, including system backups. Analyze network and server resource consumption and control user access. Install and upgrade software and maintain software licenses. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSystems Administrators39,81139%Network Administrators13,74014%Linux System Administrators7,9068%Windows Administrators5,5305%Linux Administrators3,9144%IT Systems Administrators4,2764%Linux Engineers3,1153%Sharepoint Administrators3,1073%IT Administrators3,2683%Linux Systems Engineers2,2382%Windows Server System Administrators2,2662%Network Systems Administrators2,4732%Computer Operators2,1212%Application Administrators1,5172%Administrators1,4711%Servicenow Administrators9091%Server Administrators1,3201%Cloud Systems Administrators1,0381%Netsuite Administrators1,0291%Unix Administrators1,0991%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperating Systems29,29232%Linux28,68231%System Administration23,75026%Computer Science23,50625%Active Directory21,48723%Scripting19,01721%Windows Servers17,23619%Automation16,48718%Firewall13,81515%Network Administration12,87914%Windows PowerShell12,14513%Microsoft Azure11,98013%Technical Support11,71013%Python (Programming Language)11,59613%Backup Devices11,58712%Network Routing11,22312%Unix10,39011%Network Switches10,26011%SQL (Programming Language)9,78511%Local Area Networks9,73710%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services16%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)4%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other61% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  B.S. Analytics Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Data Proficiency

			



Effectively use data visualization tools like Tableau, Power BI, or Excel for creating reports and dashboards to communicate insights.







			
  Quantitative Analysis

			


Possess strong quantitative skills and knowledge of statistical analysis tools and techniques to assess data quality, identify trends, and make data-driven recommendations.






			
  Machine Learning & Critical Thinking

			


Critically evaluate information, dissect complex problems, and propose practical solutions using machine learning and critical thinking skills.






			
  Effective Communication

			


Communicate complex findings and technical information clearly to non-technical stakeholders, bridging the gap between data analysis and decision-making.






			
  Database Management & Data Analysis

			


Present finding and make recommendations based on proficiency with database concepts, query languages, and data analysis tools.






			
  Data Ethics & Problem Solving

			



Demonstrate knowledge of data ethics, cybersecurity, data manipulation and statistical methods.
Ensure data security, integrity, and the ability to develop processes for data storage and management.







			
  Data Collection & Management

			



Collect diverse healthcare data from multiple sources, including electronic health records (EHRs), medical databases and clinical systems, to ensure comprehensive data acquisition.
Organize and manage healthcare datasets within database management systems, ensuring data accuracy, consistency and compliance with data privacy regulations like HIPAA.







			
  Data Analysis & Reporting

			



Identify patterns, trends and meaningful insights through data analysis using tools like Microsoft Excel, SQL and statistical software, enabling evidence-based decision-making in healthcare settings.
Transform complex healthcare data into clear, digestible insights.
Communicate findings effectively to stakeholders through reports and presentations, facilitating data-driven decision support.







			
  Legal & Regulatory Knowledge

			



Describe the functions of courts, legislatures and healthcare regulatory agencies in the healthcare system.
Analyze liability and risk issues for healthcare professionals and organizations.
Evaluate management practices for compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Explain regulatory compliance, ethics and cultural competency concepts.
Analyze policies impacting healthcare organizations and systems.







			
  Ethical Decision Making

			



Evaluate legal and ethical issues in medical decision-making situations.
Evaluate legal and ethical frameworks necessary for healthcare decision making.
Formulate effective measures for mitigating risks.









  B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus Frequently Asked Questions






		How long does it take to get a Healthcare Analytics degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a health data analytics degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my bachelor’s degree in healthcare analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a healthcare analytics degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's healthcare analytics degree program (B.S. Analytics- with a focus in Healthcare Analytics), you'll learn the basics of the healthcare sector - including medical terms and legal challenges, gain skills to manage health information and obtain knowledge on how to apply data in healthcare settings to improve results.




		What can you do with a healthcare data analytics online degree?
		


With a healthcare data analytics online degree (B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue a variety of jobs including healthcare data analyst, health informatics specialist and healthcare business analyst.




		Why get a healthcare analytics degree?
		


When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics degree, you’ll be able to help healthcare organizations leverage data to improve patient outcomes, optimize healthcare services and inform healthcare policies.




		What makes Franklin’s health analytics degree unique?
		


Franklin University's health analytics degree program is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its specialized focus on the intersection of healthcare, technology and data, the B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics provides students with comprehensive training in healthcare management, information and systems. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a health analytics degree accessible for busy adults. 


See All >









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog