URL: https://www.franklin.edu/about-us/faculty-staff/board-trustees
Board of Trustees | Franklin.edu



















Board of Trustees  

Home
                /  
                                              About Us
                /  
                                              Faculty & Staff
                /  
                                              Board of Trustees
                          

  Franklin’s Board of Trustees



To ensure the highest quality education for our students, Franklin is governed by a group of 20+ officers and trustees. Each of our officers and trustees takes seriously the role of furthering affordable and accessible education for working adults, while upholding the University’s reputation, mission and values, and Four Cornerstones. View the bios of our trustees and see how Franklin (and you) benefit from the expertise of respected, visionary industry leaders and entrepreneurs engaged in providing strategic insight and direction.









  Officers






  Dr. David 
 
  Decker 



  President 





Dr. David R. Decker serves as the fourth President of Franklin University. Prior to coming to Franklin he held a number of positions at the New York Institute of Technology, including playing a key role in their internationalization and development of their online presence.
Dr. Decker has also held positions at Youngstown State University, as well as at three other universities, and has international teaching experience in China, Malaysia, Russia, Mexico, Spain, Germany, Brazil, and Jordan. His extensive corporate experience includes serving as president and CEO of a $130 million manufacturing company.







  Stan
 
  Partlow



  Chair





Stan Partlow currently serves as the Chair of the Board.  Stan retired from American Electric Power in 2020. He served as AEP’s Vice President and Chief Security Officer a post he was appointed to on September 1, 2015. Stan joined AEP as the Director of physical security and aviation services on Oct. 31, 2005. During his career with AEP Stan had leadership responsibilities for physical security operations, access control, asset protection for AEP facilities and properties, AEP´s aviation services department, cyber security, procurement and the motor vehicle fleet. Prior to joining AEP, Stan served the Law Enforcement community for over 25 years. Stan served the Columbus Division of Police for over 21 years and retired as the Commander of the Detective Bureau. Stan served as a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1984-1988 where he was responsible for conducting a variety of criminal investigations. As a former adjunct professor at Franklin University, he taught in the Leadership and Public Safety Management programs. Stan has also been an adjunct professor for Capital University. Stan holds a Juris Doctor degree from the Capital University School of Law (1995), a Master of Science degree in administration from Central Michigan University (1990), and a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology from Bowling Green State University (1980).







  David
 
  White



  Vice Chair





David White is the Senior Vice President, Technology Practice for RTI International.  David previously held the position of Chief Information Officer at Battelle. He and his team were responsible for strategically aligning and advancing corporate application development, infrastructure platforms and development initiatives across the enterprise. David has held various executive-level positions with the state of Ohio including Executive Program Manager of the Ohio Administrative Knowledge System, Director of State Accounting within the Office of Budget and Management and Director of Revenue Management within the State of Ohio Treasury. He is a member of the CIO Advisory Board for Box.com, the advisory board of the Columbus African American Leadership Academy and a member of the COSI Community Board. David attended the Ohio State University where he studied electrical engineering, Columbus State Community College receiving a degree in business administration and Franklin University receiving a degree in computer management.  At Franklin, Mr. White currently serves as the Vice Chair of the Board and serves on the Audit, Controls and Compliance Committee and the Infrastructure Committee.







  Ralph
 
  Sanese



  Secretary





Mr. Sanese is Vice President, Business Development AVI Foodsystems and President of Sanese Services, Inc., a family-owned foodservices and vending company. He is a board member of the Simon Kenton Council of the Boy Scouts of America and is active in several other civic organizations. Mr. Sanese, a Franklin University alumnus, serves on the Infrastructure Committee and the Human Resource & Advancement Committee.







  Marv 
 
  Briskey



  Treasurer 





Marv Briskey joined Franklin University as Chief Financial Officer in 2006.  Dr. Briskey was promoted to Vice President & Chief Financial Officer in 2011, and Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer in 2014.  
Under his leadership, the Chief Financial Office focuses on providing both strategic operational and programmatic support to the University. The Chief Financial Office establishes and communicates both fiscal and safety and security policies and procedures; oversees $111 million in net assets, and a $90 million investment pool; and reviews and establishes internal control procedures to safeguard financial and human capital assets.  
Dr. Briskey holds a Bachelor of Art in Accounting from Hillsdale College, a Master of Business Administration from Capital University, and a Doctor of Business Administration from Baker College.











  Board Members






  Stacey
 
  Armstrong



  Board Member





Stacey Armstrong is an alumnus of Franklin University, having earned her MBA in 2009, and currently serves as the president of the WVU Innovation Corporation. Stacey previously served as chief operating officer of Riverside Methodist Hospital. During her time at OhioHealth, she also served as chief operating officer and president of Grant Medical Center in Columbus and as vice president of specialty services for OhioHealth Physicians Group. Stacey received her bachelor’s degree in medical technology from Indiana University. Stacey currently serves on the Partnerships Committee and Chairs the Human Resource & Advancement Committee.







  Bill
 
  Balderaz



  Board Member





Bill Balderaz is President & Founder of Futurety, a data analytics and marketing consulting firm. The firm focuses on helping organizations use data to power marketing and communications, serving regulated industries, including healthcare, pharma, ﬁnance, government, and medical devices. Previously, Bill was the founder and president of Webbed Marketing which went from a one-man consultancy to one of the fastest-growing interactive marketing agencies in the Midwest. He has spoken at more than 150 conferences from New York to California on innovation.







  Jamie
 
  Crane



  Board Member 





Ms. Crane is a community advocate currently serving on the boards of Goodwill Columbus, Upper Arlington Community Foundation, and the Columbus Foundation Reese-Shackelford Supporting Organization. She has also served on numerous other boards, including Planned Parenthood of Central Ohio/Greater Ohio, Columbus School for Girls, and I Know I Can. She is highly active with the Crane Group, which was founded by her grandfather. Prior to leaving the corporate world, Ms. Crane worked in Chicago (IL) for Kraft General Foods/Kraft USA where she led the brand management for several multi-million-dollar product lines, and developed the strategic plan and coordinated the major planning projects for a multi-billion division. Ms. Crane holds an MBA in Marketing from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management, at Northwestern University (IL), and a BS in Marketing and Management from Indiana University. Ms. Crane and husband Tim Miller reside in Columbus, and are the proud parents of Taylor and Hailey. Jamie serves on the Academic & Student Affiars Committee and the Human Resource & Advancement Committee.







  Mary
 
  Laird Duchi



  Board Member 





Ms. Duchi joined the board in 2009.  Mary is past Chair of the Franklin University Board of Trustees and currently serves on the Finance Committee and the Committee on Trusteeship Governance.  Mary has extensive background in both the private and public sectors. She joined Battelle in 1977 and retired from the organization 34 years later as the Vice President of Operations and Systems Services. Ms. Duchi has volunteered her time toward both professional and personal interests by serving as Board member for the Battelle National Biodefense Institute; as a Franklin Park Conservatory Trustee; as a board member for both the Central Ohio Regional Science and Engineering Fair and Edison Welding Institute boards; and on a number of committees and boards for the city of Upper Arlington. Ms. Duchi earned her MBA in Finance and Quantitative Methods from The Ohio State University and her BBA in Finance from the University of Michigan.







  Phil
 
  Fankhauser



  Board Member 





Phil Fankhauser is co-founder and principal of Epcon Communities and Epcon Communities Franchising.  Since 1986, Epcon has been a developer of communities designed for the age 55+ market.  With a home office in Columbus, Ohio and Regional offices in Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina, Epcon is recognized nationally as a top builder of age-targeted properties.  The franchise business includes franchised builders in over 20 states. Fankhauser has over 45 years’ experience in real estate development and construction and serves as a member of the Urban Land Institute’s “Lifestyle Residential Development” Council.  He is an alumnus of Franklin University and currently serves on the Marketing & Enrollment Management Committee as well as the Infrastructure Committee.







  Gary L. 
 
  Flynn



  Board Member 





Mr. Flynn joined the board in 2002. Gary serves as the Chair of the Partnership Committee. In addition, he serves on the Marketing & Enrollment Management Committee, the Committee on Trusteeship Governance, and the Audit. Controls & Compliance Committee. He earned his bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Franklin University in 1971. Flynn also is a 1983 graduate of The Ohio State University’s Executive Development Program.  Mr. Flynn was employed 33 years at Abbott Laboratories, a leading global broad-based healthcare company, where he retired as Senior Vice President of Abbott Nutrition.  Gary served as Chairman of the Board in 2013 & 2014.







  Ted
 
  Ford



  Board Member 





Ted Ford is a seasoned executive with over 25 years of experience in government, marketing, higher education, and public-private partnerships. Ted currently serves as a CEO for Advanced Energy Economy Ohio, a statewide trade group involved in the development and financing of advanced energy projects. Previously, Ted served as TechColumbus’ first CEO and as President and CEO of Edison Welding Institute, a nationally recognized independent engineering research and development organization. As Senior Vice President for University Advancement at Northern Arizona University in the late 1990’s, he led the development launch of the institution’s first capital campaign which raised $100 million. He has served as a business development professional, legislative advocate, legislative staffer, and executive assistant to the Governor of Ohio. He is also a regional affiliate director for BioOhio. He received his undergrad and his Master’s at The Ohio State University. Ted serves as the Chair of the Academic/Student Committee.







  Oyauma
 
  Garrison



  Board Member





Bringing strong operational and strategic leadership experience to the Board, Oyauma Garrison serves as the President & Chief Executive Officer at Maryhaven, Inc., a nonprofit organization that helps individuals and families lead healthy lives free from addiction and mental health challenges by providing education, treatment, and support. A Franklin MBA alumnus, Oyauma previously served as the National President & CEO of A Kid Again, a nonprofit focused on providing Hope, Happiness, and Healing for families raising children battling a life-threatening condition. He is a former insurance company executive of over 20 years. Active in the community, Oyauma has received numerous awards for leadership and community service, including being named a Top 50 Smart Business Leaders, CEO of the Year finalist (2020 & 2021) – Columbus CEO, a Columbus Business First Most Admired C-Suite leader (2019 & 2021) and NBMBAA Lifetime Achievement Award, and National MBA of Year. He has also been recognized with the United States of America Presidential 2014 Gold Standard Award for Service.







  Anthony 
 
  Gonsalves



  Board Member 





Mr. Gonsalves is currently working as a Marketing Consultant. He has an extensive marketing background, which is highlighted in his previous position as the Chief Marketing Officer for Allied Insurance, Titan Insurance, Nationwide Commercial, Nationwide Specialty, and Nationwide Agribusiness in Des Moines Iowa. Mr. Gonsalves has also worked as the Vice President for Marketing Strategy & Planning for Nationwide in Columbus, Ohio. At Franklin, Mr. Gonsalves currently serves the Academic/Student Committee as well as the Marketing & Enrollment Management Committee.







  Melissa 
 
  Gutierrez



  Immediate Past Chair





Melissa Gutierrez currently serves as the Immediate Past Chair of the Board.  Melissa is the SVP and General Manager with Synchrony, where she leads the rapidly growing Pets Best Insurance business unit within the Care Credit portfolio and serves as a key partner to leaders across the Care Credit platform within Synchrony. Prior to joining Synchrony, Melissa held a number of positions at Nationwide Insurance, including positions in sales, strategy, marketing and finance across several business units including Nationwide Insurance, Nationwide Financial and Nationwide Better Health. Melissa holds the chartered life underwriter (CLU) designation, and in addition to her bachelor’s degree in Marketing from Franklin University, also holds an MBA from the University of Dayton.  Melissa is currently the Chair of the Committee on Trusteeship Governance and serves on the Finance Committee.







  Bruce 
 
  Hagen



  Board Member





Mr. Hagen joined the Franklin board in 2010 and served as Board of Trustees Chairman 2017-2018.  Bruce is the regional executive and president of the OhioHealth North Market.  He is responsible for coordinating OhioHealth’s growth in the northern areas served by the hospital system.  He has more than 30 years’ experience in the healthcare industry.  He is a fellow in the American College of Health Care Executives, and has been affiliated with many community service programs including the Board of Directors of the Grand Rapids Community College Foundation, the Board of Directors of the Gerald R. Ford Council of Boy Scouts and the Board of Directors of the American Heart Association, Great Rivers Affiliate.  Bruce serves on the Finance Committee and the Committee on Trusteeship Governance.







  Carrie
 
  Harris-Muller



  Board Member





Providing industry expertise across multiple areas of growth at Franklin, including its expanding list of healthcare offerings, Carrie Harris-Muller is a highly accomplished and nationally recognized healthcare leader who will bring her more than 30 years of senior executive experience in insurance companies, health plans, and hospital and health systems to the Franklin Board. She currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Population Health Officer for Ohio Health, where she leads overall strategic direction for population health initiatives, including developing prevention and wellness programs to lower risks for patients and improve overall health outcomes. Carrie oversees the system’s care management efforts, its post-acute care programs and division, and OhioHealth’s Clinically Integrated Network and Accountable Care Organization. She is also responsible for the relationships with local and national payers and leads managed care for the health care system.  Prior to joining OhioHealth, Carrie held executive leadership positions with local and national payers and hospital and healthcare systems. Carrie is passionate about community service and serves on several national and local nonprofits boards.







  Gary W.
 
  James



  Board Member 





Mr. James is an alumnus of Franklin University, a past Board of Trustees Chairman, and currently serves on the Finance, Partnerships, and Governance Committees. He is founder and President of Dynalab, Inc., an electronic manufacturing services company; Dynalab Test Systems, Inc., a designer and manufacturer of electronic test equipment; President of JAAS Systems, LLC, a publisher of manufacturing software; and a board member of MD Systems, LLC, a medical device manufacturer. Mr. James has served as President of a Kiwanis club, Treasurer of National Church Residences, and in numerous other community organizations.







  Joseph
 
  Patrick



  Board Member





As the President of Cristo Rey High School since 2020, Joseph Patrick will lend his decades of finance, accounting, and auditing expertise to the Board and its oversight of the University’s financial activities. His expertise is supported by 30 years of experience as a CPA at Schneider Downs, and at Coopers & Lybrand.  Lending insight to the University’s expanding list of K-12 academic offerings, Joseph’s knowledge and experience in secondary school issues and the teacher education regulatory environment support Franklin’s rapid expansion in education-related programs.  Joseph’s business and charitable community activities include involvement with the Catholic Foundation, the Women’s Care Center, Recreation Unlimited, Hands on Central Ohio, and Medigold.







  Peter 
 
  Roche 



  Board Member 





Peter joined the Board in 2009, and currently serves Franklin as the Chair of the Finance Committee and as member of the Partnership Committee.  Roche retired from his position as Senior Vice President, Finance at Chemical Abstracts Services in 2008.  Prior to joining Chemical Abstracts, he served as Vice President, Accounting & Finance for Honda of America Manufacturing; Senior Manager, Tax with Peat Marwick; Partner with Hammersmith, Roche & Jenkins, CPAs; and as a tax consultant for Frank, Seringer & Chaney, CPAs.  Mr. Roche earned his B.S. degree in Accounting for The Ohio State University; his CPA certificate shortly thereafter. 







  Thomas
 
  Shoupe



  Board Member





Thomas Shoupe recently retired from Honda of America Mfg., Inc. (HAM), where he served in numerous leadership and management roles over his 33-year career. In his final role at Honda, he served as Executive Vice President and COO of HAM, was a senior member of the Honda North America Regional Operating Board, and served as function leader for the company’s human resources planning and staff deployment for regional manufacturing operations.  Before joining Honda, Tom served as a legislative assistant to U.S. Representatives Thomas N. Kindness and Michael G. Oxley. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.  Tom represented Honda externally in many capacities, including serving as a board member for the Columbus Partnership and Columbus 2020, an economic development organization for the 11-county Columbus, Ohio region.  He previously served on the board from April 2008 through January 2012, and currently serves on the Academic/Student Committee and the Partnerships Committee.







  Pamela
 
  Springer



  Board Member





Pamela Springer is a seasoned entrepreneur with more than 25 years of experience growing tech-based companies including raising $55M in funding and leading re-starts and IPOs. She most recently served as president and CEO of ORIS Intelligence. There, she drove strategic growth for the company including being named one of the fastest growing companies in Ohio, supporting over 750 world-class brands and growing its team by 100 percent over the past three years, leading to its acquisition in 2019 by PriceSpider.  Prior to ORIS, she built Manta Media into one of the largest, most trafficked websites in the U.S.  Pam has been recognized as one of the “13 Powerful Women Running Today’s Biggest Startups” by Business Insider and was awarded the 2011 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award in Technology for the Central Region. She sits on the boards of multiple emerging growth companies including RevLocal and InvestX Capital.  Springer earned a business degree from Franklin University, graduating summa cum laude.  She played on the Oakland University basketball team the year they made it to the NCAA Division II Final Four. When she’s not working, Pam is an avid sports fan, outdoor enthusiast, and flute player, and recently summited Mt. Kilimanjaro.  Pam serves as the Chair of the Marketing & Enrollment Management Committee. 







  Jennifer
 
  Thomas



  Board Member





Jennifer Thomas recently retired from Nationwide Insurance, where she served in several leadership roles within the legal department.  She is an attorney with over 25 years of experience advising corporate executives on various legal issues, including complex contract issues, employee benefits, employment policy issues, and business operations compliance issues.  As an executive at Nationwide, she worked closely with her internal clients and colleagues to attain business objectives and generate practical and creative solutions to various business and legal challenges. Jennifer recently served on the board for Easter Seals Central and Southeast Ohio for the full six-year term, where she was a member of the executive committee and the Fiscal and Governance committees.  She currently serves on the Groveport Community School Board. She received her Juris Doctor degree from Capital University College of Law and her Bachelor of Arts degree in Biology from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.  Jennifer currently serves on the Franklin University Board of Trustees Human Resources Committee.







  Matthew 
 
  Toussant



  Board Member





Matthew is a senior executive for the non-profit scientific information firm, CAS.  Matthew has over ten years as an operations leader of the world’s largest and most comprehensive chemical science data and information collection.  He has been employed by CAS in numerous positions since 1987.   Matthew served in the US Army Reserve from 1982-2002.  Matthew holds a PhD, Interdisciplinary (food protein chemistry, nutrition, pathophysiology) (1992), a Master of Science degree in Food Chemistry and Nutritional Biochemistry (1979) a Bachelor of Science degree (1976) from The Ohio State University.  Matthew currently serves on the Academic/Student Committee and Partnerships Committee. 







  Denise
 
  Zabawski



  Board Member





A leader in the constantly evolving technology industry, Denise Zabawski, CIO of Nationwide Children’s Hospital and a Franklin MBA alumna, brings expertise honed over more than two decades of experience in healthcare and banking. During her service at Nationwide Children’s Hospital, Denise has led the implementation of multiple EMR systems, ERP systems, and two new data center construction projects and supported the construction of many new facilities. Denise is also a member of numerous professional organizations and associations, including HIMSS, CHIME, and the Children’s Hospital Association.











  Trustees Emeriti





			
  Trustees Emeriti

			


Robert L. Bailey * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1993-1994
William H. Bennett * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1997-1998
Robert S. Crane * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1987-1988
David J. D'Antoni served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 2004-2004
Jo Ann Davidson served as Board member from 1996 -2017
J. Richard Emens * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1995-1996
Phyllis H. Greene* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1983-1984
Floyd V. Jones served as Board member from 1996-2023
James Kunk served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1999-2000
Gregory S. Lashutka served as a Trustee April 2004 – January 2022, served as Chairman of the Board 2006-2008
General Raymond E. Mason Jr.* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1985-1986
Roger L. Merrill* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1972-1973
James W. Phillips * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1976-1977
John B. Ruhlin Jr.* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 2004-2006
C. Kenneth Smith* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1981-1982
George A. Snodgrass * served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1962-1963
Ralph E. Waldo* served as Chairman of the Franklin Board of Trustees from 1979-1980

* Deceased











Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog