URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/bachelors/cloud-computing
Cloud Computing Bachelor's Degree Program Online | Franklin.edu



















B.S. Cloud Computing
 

  124Credit Hours76%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Transfer CreditRequest InfoApply Today Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Bachelor's Degrees
                /  
                                              Cloud Computing
                          

  Enhance tech efficiency and scalability with a cloud computing degree


With its ability to provide cost-effective and reliable access to technology resources, cloud computing has become a fundamental part of business operations. Organizations in every industry have adopted cloud technologies, which has resulted in growing demand for skilled professionals who can design, implement and manage cloud solutions. Franklin’s 100% online B.S. Cloud Computing is a comprehensive program that provides you with hands-on skills and expertise to innovate and excel in cloud architecture, security and data management.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  In-Demand Skills
Gain hands-on experience in Azure, AWS and GCP.



  Finish Faster
Transfer up to 94 previously earned college credits.



  Instructor-Led Courses
Be guided by faculty who are experienced technology leaders.



  Differentiate Yourself
Qualify for a certification exam with each completed course.



  Finish Faster
Get course credit for previous coursework or industry certifications.



  Industry-Aligned Curriculum
Partnerships with AWS Academy + Red Hat® keep courses up-to-date.











  Cloud Computing Degree Overview





  Gain industry-aligned expertise in cloud computing technology and application

The specialized nature of Franklin’s B.S. in Cloud Computing gives you a competitive advantage in the job market. Major area courses in the major align with 11 industry-recognized certifications from CompTIA, AWS and Microsoft. These certifications validate your skills and can boost your professional credibility with current and future employers.With each 12-week major area course you complete, you will gain the knowledge and skills that correspond with at least one certification. Upon completion of every class you will be eligible to sit for a certification exam. Certifications aligned with the bachelor’s degree curriculum include: CompTIA A+, Network+ and Cloud Essentials+; Microsoft Azure Fundamentals and Azure Administration; AWS Cloud Practitioner, Solutions Architect, SysOps Administrator and Security. Exams can be taken through Pearson or through testing services offered through the University’s Learning Commons. Build skills and enhance your problem-solving skills with hands-on learningProjects, simulations and hands-on assignments provide significant training on two major cloud service providers, Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services (AWS), as well as comprehensive support for Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to broaden your opportunities. This type of applied learning gives you experience with real-world cloud scenarios like account set up, machine allocation, operation systems management and load balancing. Practical exposure also enhances your problem-solving abilities and helps you build a strong portfolio of skills that are transferable across a variety of industries and work environments.In a rapidly changing landscape like cloud computing, you want to be sure what you’re learning is aligned with current thinking. Franklin’s partnerships with industry-leading CSPs like AWS and software companies like Red Hat® ensure that courses remain up-to-date and you are earning a degree that equips you with the latest knowledge in services, tools and best practices. Get credit for what you already know and finish your degree in cloud computing fasterWhether you’re entering the field or looking to advance your existing career, Franklin’s transfer-friendly bachelor’s degree program in cloud computing meets you where you are. You can save time and money on your bachelor’s in cloud computing if you’ve already completed an associate degree or introductory college-level coursework in programming, security or networking. This degree is also a great fit for you if you have existing industry-recognized certifications including, but not limited to, those provided by CompTIA, AWS or Microsoft. If you have any questions about how your previous college coursework or industry certification aligns with the B.S. Cloud Computing degree requirements, an admissions advisor would be happy to answer them for you. Read more >






  Future Start Date




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









   Your Best Value B.S. Cloud Computing




Choose Franklin's B.S. Cloud Computing and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and budget.    







Affordable Tuition


$398
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates provide value and quality.






Keep the Credit You've Earned


94
MAX TRANSFER HOURS

Transfer up to 75% of required credits to finish faster and spend less.






Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.







$49,352
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee
Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.











Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×








  Cloud Computing Courses & Curriculum




				124 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.


																					AND																			

Choose MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite. Course can count as a University elective.




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from Anthropology, Economics, Geography, History, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology. Must select at least two different disciplines to meet requirements.
										




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Arts & Humanities							



HUMN 211 - Introduction to Critical Ethics (2)
Critical Ethics uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition. Accordingly, the goal of this course is to help the student improve his/her ethical analysis and evaluation skills to help the student do the thing that must be done, when it ought to be done, using critical thinking.


																					AND																			


											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose additional course from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.
OR SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.


																					AND																			

ENG 220 - Research Writing: Exploring Professional Identities (4)
This is an intermediate course focusing on the composition of research papers. Students in this course prepare to be active participants in professional discourse communities by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their own fields of study and work. By calling attention to the conventions of disciplinary writing, the course also prepares students for upper-division college writing and the special conventions of advanced academic discourse. Course activities include three extended research papers, semi-formal writing addressing interdisciplinary communication, and readings fostering critical engagement with disciplinary conversations.





				Professional Core			




COMP 101 - Problem Solving With Computing (2)
Many organizations today utilize computers and information systems to store, organize, analyze, and summarize data to solve problems.  As a result, computing is a tool that can benefit students in many different fields.  At the heart of solving problems with computers is the study of structured thinking using algorithms.  This course is designed for students with no prior programming experience and teaches the building blocks of algorithms, including variables, expressions, selection and repetition structures, functions and parameters, and array processing.


COMP 204 - Principles of Computer Networks (2)
This course serves as an introduction to the function, design, administration, and implementation of computer networks. Topics include network infrastructure, architecture, protocols, applications, and the OSI networking model. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


COMP 281 - Database Management Systems (4)
This course, Database Management Systems, covers the fundamental concepts necessary for the design, use, implementation, and administration of database systems. The course will stress the fundamentals of database modeling and design, the languages and facilities provided by database management systems, and some techniques for implementing and administering database systems.


ITEC 136 - Principles of Programming (4)
This course introduces programming to individuals with little or no programming background. The goal of this course is to introduce the fundamentals of structured programming, problem solving, algorithm design, and software lifecycle. Topics will include testing, data types, operations, repetition and selection control structures, functions and procedures, arrays, and top down stepwise refinement. Students will design, code, test, debug, and document programs in a relevant programming language.


ITEC 200 - Linux Fundamentals (2)
This course introduces the Linux operating system with a focus on the foundational Linux concepts and core tasks of the system administrator. Students will examine numerous commands and tools to maintain and operate Linux systems. This course utilizes hands-on lab exercises to provide students with professional experience.


CLOUD 200 - Cloud Fundamentals (2)
This course explores the concepts of cloud computing, including financial impacts and business value, financial requirements, deployment, risks, and security. Hands-on exercises help students to gain experience with cloud computing environments, identifying technical and security requirements for given deployment scenarios, implementing the proposed cloud deployment scenario, and troubleshooting technical issues of existing cloud computing scenarios.


ITEC 175 - Computer Maintenance (2)
This course introduces students to computer systems and components: central processing unit, memory system, storage, network devices, and computer peripherals. It also helps students to have hands-on experience on installing, managing, and troubleshooting operating systems of personal computers. This course also introduces emerging hardware and software systems such as mobile phones, Windows and macOS systems, virtualization, and best practices for computer maintenance.


ITEC 350 - Windows Administration (4)
This course provides the student with an introduction to Windows Server administration and is structured to assist a network manager or planner in planning, configuring,  installing, running, and repairing networks that include a Windows Server 2008. As such, it provides an introduction to server installation, Active Directory, printer management, domains, network clients, security, disaster recovery, fault/error management, and scripting of common tasks. This course also uses cloud technologies and requires internet access.


CYSC 200 - Cybersecurity Fundamentals (2)
The Internet has changed dramatically; so have the activities that are dependent on it in some shape or form. Understanding the need for security, it's influence on people, businesses and society, as well as business drivers is critical. The course also covers malicious attacks, threats and vulnerabilities common to the world of security, as well as access controls, and methods to assess and respond to risks. Hands-on labs accompany the various concepts that are taught.





				Major Area Required			




MIS 310 - Info Systems Architecture & Technology (4)
This course provides a conceptual survey of general systems theory followed by a conceptual and technological survey of the structure of distributed information systems architectures, operating systems, network operating systems, peripheral technology and user interfaces. Interoperability between these architectural components will be explored and current technology and trends in each architectural element will be reviewed. This course will de-emphasize, although not ignore, mainframe architectures in favor of information architectures more applicable to client/server computing. The various interacting categories of client/server computing as well as the benefits and implications of such a system will be fully explored.


ITEC 430 - Information Technology Project Management (4)
This course provides an introduction to the concepts of information technology project management and techniques for initiating, planning, executing, monitoring, and controlling of resources to accomplish specific project goals. Both technical and behavioral aspects of project management are discussed. While the focus is on information technology projects, the principles follow the nine project management knowledge areas obtained in the Project Management Institute's?PMBOK?Guide, Third Edition?and, thus, are applicable to the management of any project. Topics will include integration, scope, time, cost, quality, human resource, communications, risk, and procurement management. Project management software utilization is emphasized.


CLOUD 310 - Microsoft Azure Fundamentals and Administration (4)
This course introduces the basics of cloud-based solutions and services using Microsoft Azure. The course introduces the students to core solutions and management tools on Azure, general security and network security features, identity, governance, privacy, and compliance features, and Azure cost management and Service Level Agreements. It also helps students to assess the responsibilities for this role including implementing, managing, and monitoring identity, governance, storage, computing, and virtual networks in a cloud environment, and provision, size, monitoring, and adjusting resources.


CLOUD 320 - AWS Cloud Practitioner (4)
This course introduces students to the basic understanding of the AWS Cloud platform and the economics and essentials of the AWS Cloud. Also, it introduces students to basic models for cloud deployment, operations, and security. This course addresses basic business aspects of AWS cloud computing including billing, licensing, and pricing models. The course matches the ?AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner? certification from Amazon Web Services.


CLOUD 340 - AWS Solutions Architect (4)
This course introduces the students to the knowledge and skills required to design, plan, and scale AWS implementations. The course provides introductory experience designing available, cost-effective, fault-tolerant, and scalable distributed systems on AWS. This course provides students with implementation guidance based on best practices for an organization throughout the lifecycle of a project. The course focuses on various AWS topics including cost-effective storage solutions, secure access to AWS resources, high-performing databases, and network solutions for a workload.


CLOUD 360 - DevOps and IT Automation  (4)
This course is designed to equip students with the skills needed to automate the provisioning, deployment, configuration, and management of cloud-based IT infrastructure by focusing on practical skills and hands-on experience using popular tools such as cloud-init, Terraform, Ansible, and Git. In addition, students will build continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines to manage, build, and deploy applications within that managed infrastructure.


CLOUD 420 - AWS SysOps Administrator (4)
This course introduces the students to the skills and expertise in deployment, management, and operations on the AWS platform and provides them with the experience of provisioning, operating, and maintaining systems running on AWS. It also helps students to identify and gather requirements to define a solution to be built and operated on AWS. This course validates the students? ability to provide AWS operations and deployment guidance and recommend best practices throughout the lifecycle of a project.


CLOUD 460 - Containers and Orchestration (4)
This course introduces containers and orchestration on Docker and Kubernetes systems. It introduces students to Docker basics (docker run, docker-compose), storage and volumes, image creation, management, and registries, networking and security, scaling stateless containers for dynamic workloads, and Docker swarm. It also introduces Kubernetes systems, installation, management, and features. This course provides students with hands-on experience with candidate containers and orchestration tools and systems. 


CLOUD 495 - Cloud Computing Capstone (4)
The cloud computing capstone course encourages teamwork in small groups on a substantial project. The intent of this course is to provide a capstone experience that integrates the material contained in required courses of the cloud computing major. It also provides an opportunity for students to recognize and evaluate the interrelationship of their general education courses with the courses taken for their major. The capstone will include a discussion about professional and ethical issues related to cloud computing. Students will also culminate their experiences with an overview of the evolution of computer systems and a look at the near-term future.


CLOUD 440 - AWS Cloud Security (4)
This course helps students to gain expertise in securing data and workloads in the AWS Cloud. It introduces the AWS cloud security concepts including AWS workloads, permissions, identities, data protection, management, logging, SEIM, and responding to incidents. This course helps students to have hands-on experience with AWS security solutions. 





				University Electives			





											24 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











  Academic Minors




Personalize your degree with a minor. Explore available minors, learn how minors can benefit you, and find out what requirements you must meet to earn a minor.Learn More






  Industry-Aligned to Fuel Your Career Growth







  AWS Academy Member
When it comes to building cloud expertise: Relevance rules. By choosing Franklin University, an AWS Academy member institution, you can be assured that the knowledge and skills you gain will prepare you well for real-world scenarios. With access to curriculum developed and maintained by AWS, Franklin provides the most up-to-date thinking to help you tackle on-the-job challenges.










  B.S. Cloud Computing Program Deails






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the B.S. Cloud Computing matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.










Employment Outlook





6%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Information Technology are expected to increase by 6%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Database Architects
$134,701
56,258
14%




Database Architects
									Median Salary: $134,701

									Job Postings: 56,258

									Projected Growth: 14%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionDatabase Architects design strategies for enterprise databases, data warehouse systems, and multidimensional networks. Set standards for database operations, programming, query processes, and security. Model, design, and construct large relational databases or data warehouses. Create and optimize data models for warehouse infrastructure and workflow. Integrate new systems with existing warehouse structure and refine system performance and functionality. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsData Architects11,94421%Database Developers4,5168%Data Governance Managers4,8379%Infrastructure Architects4,1537%Data Specialists3,6387%Data Engineering Managers2,7525%Data Managers2,8735%Data Coordinators3,2296%Data Stewards2,1974%Database Architects1,9544%Azure Architects1,4213%Data Management Managers1,9383%Directors of Data Engineering1,5753%Big Data Developers1,5973%Knowledge Managers1,5883%Data Product Managers1,3472%Information Specialists1,5823%Cloud Infrastructure Architects1,1932%Data Warehouse Architects8622%Data Warehouse Developers1,0622%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsSQL (Programming Language)28,14225%Data Management25,12323%Computer Science24,39922%Data Analysis24,00122%Project Management19,10817%Data Governance17,74016%Data Modeling17,27116%Data Warehousing17,19015%Data Quality17,16615%Python (Programming Language)16,08714%Data Architecture15,72514%Extract Transform Load (ETL)15,00514%Agile Methodology14,89113%Amazon Web Services13,78912%Microsoft Azure13,01612%Business Intelligence11,44210%Automation11,10410%Auditing11,07210%Workflow Management10,73310%Business Requirements9,7179%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services23%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services6%Insurance Carriers6%Software Publishers6%Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services6%Other44% 
Computer Network Architects
$129,834
105,281
8%




Computer Network Architects
									Median Salary: $129,834

									Job Postings: 105,281

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Network Architects design and implement computer and information networks, such as local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), intranets, extranets, and other data communications networks. Perform network modeling, analysis, and planning, including analysis of capacity needs for network infrastructures. May also design network and computer security measures. May research and recommend network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsNetwork Engineers50,59048%Automation Engineers12,00911%Network Architects5,5665%Network Analysts3,8294%Network Systems Engineers2,8663%Automation Controls Engineers3,0173%Controls Engineers3,6093%Telecommunications Engineers2,9813%Network Specialists2,3792%Cloud Network Engineers2,0382%Principal Network Engineers3,0743%Lead Network Engineers2,0152%Core Network Engineers2,1612%Wireless Network Engineers1,7082%Cisco Network Engineers1,4091%VMware Engineers1,2151%Network Software Engineers1,4371%Storage Engineers1,1841%Network Security Engineers1,1911%Network Automation Engineers1,0031%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNetwork Engineering41,61634%Network Routing35,89930%Automation32,99627%Computer Science30,76725%Firewall30,42125%Network Switches26,37722%Wide Area Networks23,23619%Local Area Networks21,17518%Systems Engineering20,59817%Project Management19,07216%Network Infrastructure18,03315%Border Gateway Protocol17,77815%Python (Programming Language)17,44114%Virtual Private Networks (VPN)16,40914%Network Security16,14613%Networking Hardware16,05113%Operating Systems15,45713%Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)15,24413%Scripting14,86512%Telecommunications14,31912%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services25%Wired and Wireless Telecommunications (except Satellite)12%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Employment Services4%Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other43% 
Computer Programmers
$99,715
36,884
-4%




Computer Programmers
									Median Salary: $99,715

									Job Postings: 36,884

									Projected Growth: -4%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Programmers create, modify, and test the code and scripts that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software and web developers or other individuals. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsProgrammer Analysts11,25531%Program Analysts4,59513%Programmers5,75416%Statistical Programmers2,5527%Systems Programmers1,3094%SAS Programmers9493%Computer Programmers1,2563%SAS Developers7232%Business Analysts/Programmers8992%Software Programmers7282%Management and Program Analysts7092%GIS Program Managers1,2543%RPG Programmers5041%Scientific Programmers5932%IT Programmer Analysts7792%Programmers/Developers4621%Automation Programmers1,0483%Robot Programmers6952%Scientific Program Analysts3911%Cobol Programmers4291%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsComputer Science9,63028%SQL (Programming Language)8,53925%Project Management5,45216%Debugging4,40713%Python (Programming Language)4,39013%SAS (Software)4,30013%JavaScript (Programming Language)4,08612%Java (Programming Language)3,79711%C# (Programming Language)3,67911%Data Analysis3,51310%Software Development3,50010%Automation3,0969%Programming Languages2,9959%Statistics2,9569%Agile Methodology2,9489%Workflow Management2,8298%Information Systems2,7118%C++ (Programming Language)2,6738%Application Programming Interface (API)2,6678%HyperText Markup Language (HTML)2,5568%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services33%Education and Hospitals (State Government)7%Software Publishers6%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Scientific Research and Development Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises4%Other42% 
Network and Computer Systems Administrators
$95,347
102,148
8%




Network and Computer Systems Administrators
									Median Salary: $95,347

									Job Postings: 102,148

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators install, configure, and maintain an organization’s local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), data communications network, operating systems, and physical and virtual servers. Perform system monitoring and verify the integrity and availability of hardware, network, and server resources and systems. Review system and application logs and verify completion of scheduled jobs, including system backups. Analyze network and server resource consumption and control user access. Install and upgrade software and maintain software licenses. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSystems Administrators39,81139%Network Administrators13,74014%Linux System Administrators7,9068%Windows Administrators5,5305%Linux Administrators3,9144%IT Systems Administrators4,2764%Linux Engineers3,1153%Sharepoint Administrators3,1073%IT Administrators3,2683%Linux Systems Engineers2,2382%Windows Server System Administrators2,2662%Network Systems Administrators2,4732%Computer Operators2,1212%Application Administrators1,5172%Administrators1,4711%Servicenow Administrators9091%Server Administrators1,3201%Cloud Systems Administrators1,0381%Netsuite Administrators1,0291%Unix Administrators1,0991%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperating Systems29,29232%Linux28,68231%System Administration23,75026%Computer Science23,50625%Active Directory21,48723%Scripting19,01721%Windows Servers17,23619%Automation16,48718%Firewall13,81515%Network Administration12,87914%Windows PowerShell12,14513%Microsoft Azure11,98013%Technical Support11,71013%Python (Programming Language)11,59613%Backup Devices11,58712%Network Routing11,22312%Unix10,39011%Network Switches10,26011%SQL (Programming Language)9,78511%Local Area Networks9,73710%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services16%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)4%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other61% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Cloud Computing Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Cloud Architecture & Design

			



Design and implement cloud solutions
Select appropriate cloud services
Ensure scalability, reliability and security of cloud environments
Apply  knowledge of multi-cloud and hybrid cloud environments







			
  Cloud Infrastructure Management & Optimization

			



Configure and maintain cloud infrastructure
Deploy and manage applications on cloud platforms
Optimize cloud resources for efficiency, reliability and performance
Implement cloud cost management and optimization strategies







			
  DevOps & Automation

			



Implement automation, continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines
Foster collaboration between development and operations teams
Streamline software development and deployment processes in cloud environments
Demonstrate expertise in containerization and orchestration for efficient application deployment







			
  Cloud Security & Compliance

			



Implement security measures to protect cloud environments and data
Monitor for threats, vulnerabilities and unauthorized access
Ensure compliance with security standards, regulations and best practices
Apply knowledge of advanced security practices, compliance and governance frameworks







			
  Cloud Administration &  Monitoring

			



Manageme and monitor cloud resources and services
Configure virtual machines and user access
Ensure the performance, availability and health of cloud services
Participate in cloud cost management and monitoring







			
  Cloud Consulting & Solution Development

			



Advise on cloud migration and optimization
Assess business needs and recommend suitable cloud solutions
Guide implementation strategies aligned with organizational goals
Possess expertise in cloud migration and integration for designing and developing cloud-based solutions









  Cloud Computing Bachelor's Frequently Asked Questions






		How long does it take to get a cloud computing degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a cloud computing degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my degree in cloud computing cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a cloud computing bachelor’s degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's cloud computing bachelor’s degree program (B.S. Cloud Computing), you'll master the art of deploying, managing and optimizing applications on cloud platforms.




		What can you do with a bachelor’s degree in cloud computing?
		


With a bachelor’s degree in cloud computing (B.S. Cloud Computing) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue IT roles like cloud developer, cloud engineer and cloud architect in a variety of industries including government agencies, large corporations, start ups, nonprofit organizations, education and the military.




		Why get a cloud computing degree?
		


From harnessing the power of virtualization to diving into the intricacies of DevOps and containerization, with a Franklin B.S. Cloud Computing degree, you’ll gain the specialized skill set, relevant knowledge and practical experience to thrive in the ever-changing cloud computing environment.




		What makes Franklin’s degree in cloud computing unique?
		


Franklin University's comprehensive degree in cloud computing is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical skills and certifications, Franklin’s B.S. Cloud Computing equips students to work effectively to design, implement and manage cloud solutions. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a cloud computing bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults.


See All >









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog