URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/student-services/community-standards
Student Code of Conduct | Franklin.edu



















Community Standards - Community Standards & the Student Code of Conduct 

Home
                /  
                                              Student Services
                /  
                                              Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct
                          









What Are Community Standards?Franklin University's mission is to provide a high-quality, relevant education to the broadest community of learners working to achieve their educational goals.  In order to realize this mission, all students are expected to acknowledge and abide by a set of universal values that serve as a gateway toward a profound learning experience:Honesty and Integrity: Personal integrity is expected of all students in all aspects of community life, both in and out of the classroom.  An essential part of the learning process is seeking the truth in all learning mechanisms.Respect for Others: Students are expected to treat all people with respect, regardless of identity(s), values or beliefs. Mutual respect promotes free and open communication, independent thought and understanding.Respect for Campus Community: It is in the common interest to protect both University property and the private property of all members of the community.  University property can include, but is not limited to: Campus Technology, Physical Course Materials and Physical Buildings.  Private Property can include, but is not limited to:  Personal Possessions, Transportation Devices and Academic Work.Responsible Use of Technology: Students are expected to uphold the integrity and validity of information contained in University databases and communications.    Students are expected to respect applicable copyright, privacy and licensing regulations.Commitment to the Teaching and Learning Process: The University Community is committed toward a paramount goal of providing a robust learning experience for all students.  This commitment involves ensuring academic quality and responding to internal and external changes toward the learning environment.







  Additional Information





			
  Components of Community Standards

			


Franklin University’s Community Standards are made up of four main components:Student Code of Conduct - Rules and regulations that inform students of prohibited behaviors that compromise the integrity and respect for the campus community and the University’s process to address such concerns.Academic Misconduct Process - Standards to identify and prevent activity that tends to compromise academic integrity or subvert the educational process and the University’s process to address such concerns.Formal Student Grievance Process - Formal resolution process to address a complaint, allegation or concern reported by a student regarding their experience in the campus community, or with the University as a whole.Student Appeal Process - a formal challenge, filed by a student, regarding a recent decision related to any of the three components above.






			
  What is the Office of Community Standards?

			


The Mission of the Office of Community Standards (OCS) is to promote, support and uphold Franklin’s Community Standards for all students.  Embodying the universal values of the Community Standards Process, the Office seeks to address any possible conflicts with these values impacting comprehensive support of the Campus Community.  OCS serves to facilitate a process that is informed, impartial and balances accountability and education of the student.






			
  Student Rights

			


All members of the campus community have certain rights which are granted as part of their affiliation with Franklin University. These rights include the following:Freedom of inquiry, expression, and lawful assembly.  The University recognizes this right, afforded all members of the campus community by the Constitution of the United States, when exercised in compliance with the laws of the State of Ohio, the ordinances of the City of Columbus, Ohio, and the policies, rules and regulations of the University.  The right to be secure in their persons, papers, and effects against unreasonable, illegal, or unauthorized searches and seizures.  Students have a legitimate right to privacy in compliance with the laws of the State of Ohio, the ordinances of the City of Columbus, Ohio, and the policies, rules and regulations of the University.The right to fair and reasonably expeditious due process under the student conduct system of the University.The right to be free from discrimination on the basis of age, gender, race, creed, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, religion, or physical disability.The right to petition the University for redress of grievances, amendment of college regulations and modification of policies.






			
  Outcomes of the Community Standards Process

			


Through the establishment and facilitation of Community Standards, Franklin University seeks to:Uphold the integrity and validity of the Franklin University MissionProvide profound co-curricular learning experiences to students encompassing both challenge and supportSupport and advocate for members of the Campus Community when involved with violations of Community Standards






			
  Application

			


Franklin’s Community Standards policies apply, but are not limited to, all components of online courses, virtual meetings, and learning.  Additional application includes all actions, events, and functions on or near University premises, Community Standards policies also apply to off-campus student conduct when participating in University-affiliated student activity, including:Academic course requirements or any credit-bearing experiences, such as internships, clinicals or apprenticeshipsAny activity sponsored, conducted, or authorized by the University or by registered student organizationsAny activity that causes substantial destruction of property belonging to the University or members of the campus community or causes significant harm to the health or safety of members of the campus communityCommunity Standards and the Legal ProcessFranklin students are subject to city, state, and federal laws while at the University, and violations of those laws may also constitute violations of the Student Code of Conduct.  In such instances, the University may proceed with student conduct proceedings independently of any criminal proceedings involving the same conduct and may impose sanctions for code violations even if such criminal proceedings are not yet resolved or are resolved in the student's favor.Admissions Review Committee                                                                                                           Franklin University requires that a review shall be conducted by the Admissions Review Committee prior to admission to the University for all applicants who meet one or more of the following conditions:The University has information that an applicant has a violent felony conviction (prior or current offense)The Applicant voluntarily disclosed a violent felony conviction (prior or current offense)The Applicant has been dismissed, placed on probation, or has pending judicial actions by another institution of higher educationApplicant is disruptive or commits incidents of non-compliance with university policies during the admissions process, or while previously attending the institutionThe University reserves the right to deny admittance, continuous enrollment, or re-admittance of any student whose presence at the University would disrupt University operations or endanger the health, safety, or welfare of themselves or the University community members.*Former students who are denied readmittance will have access to University systems (e.g. Student email, Self-Service, Canvas) removed.






			
  Student Code of Conduct

			


What is the Student Code of Conduct?The Student Code of Conduct provides rules and regulations that inform students of prohibited conduct that compromises the integrity and respect of the campus community and the University’s process to address such concerns.Rules & RegulationsAlcoholic Beverages                                                                                                                                  The use, purchase, consumption, manufacture, distribution, dispensing or possession of alcohol is prohibited on University property, The use of alcohol at University sponsored off-campus events is prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by the University President. Appearing on University premises while intoxicated is prohibited.Animals on CampusAnimals, with the exception of clearly identified service animals (guide, hearing and service), are prohibited from all campus buildings unless required for academic reasons.Arson                                                                                                                                                       Committing acts of arson or creating a fire hazard of any kind is prohibited.AssaultAny actions involving physical assault, overtly aggressive behavior or threats, which if carried out endanger the safety of oneself or which cause injury to another person, is prohibited.Children on CampusTo ensure that the environment at Franklin University is conducive to learning and free from distractions, no children under the age of 18 are permitted to attend classes or to be present in libraries, academic support centers or computer labs unless they are a registered student of the University.  Additionally, no child may be left unattended in any interior or exterior space on campus grounds.Dishonest ConductActs of non-academic misconduct and/or willful misrepresentation are strictly prohibited.  Examples include, but are not limited to:Misrepresenting oneself in any manner when communicating with University Community membersProviding false identification to the University Intentionally falsifying information on any University documentationSubmitting fraudulent documentation to the UniversityDisorderly/Disruptive ConductDisorderly and/or disruptive conduct is prohibited and defined as any behavior by reckless, negligent, or intentional means, which is perceived to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to others, or which interferes with the rights of others, disturbs the public peace, disrupts an online learning space, endangers personal well-being, or causes risk of harm to private or public property.  Examples include, but are not limited to:Using derogatory language, interrupting, or interfering with the ability of a University staff or faculty member to provide requested support.Disrupting online or in-person course meetings.  Examples of disruption, include, but are not limited to, repeatedly interrupting a course instructor or interfering with the ability of another student’s participation in the class.Drug/Controlled Substance PolicyThe unlawful use, purchase, consumption, manufacture, distribution, dispensing and/or possession of any controlled substance (drug) and/or the misuse of a prescription drug is prohibited on any University property (including vehicles parked on University grounds) or at any Franklin University-sponsored event.  Appearing on University premises while under the influence of an illegal or unauthorized substance is prohibited.Note:  Despite the legalization of marijuana in the State of Ohio, the possession, usage or sale of marijuana or THC-derived products is prohibited on campus.Failure to Comply with University AuthorityFailure to comply is prohibited and defined as, but not limited to, failing without just cause, to comply with the directions of a University official (faculty, staff, administrator, or any individual acting on the University’s behalf).Firearms and WeaponsThe use, storage, control, or possession of firearms (any gun, rifle, pistol, or handgun designed to fire bullets, BBs, pellets, or projectiles (including paintballs), regardless of the propellant used), ammunition, deadly weapons (any instrument of combat or any object not designed as an instrument of combat but carried for the purpose of inflicting or threatening bodily injury), or military ordnance of any kind on the University property or at University functions is expressly forbidden.                                 Note:  Any exception to this policy requires formal approval by the Assistant Director of Safety and Security Services (or designee).                                                                                                    GamblingStudents are prohibited from engaging in unauthorized games of chance for money or other gains.Infliction of Physical or Mental HarmHate SpeechAny form of expression that attempts to vilify, humiliate or incite hatred against a group or a class of persons on the basis of race, religion, skin color, sexual identity, gender identity, ethnicity, disability or national origin.HarassmentAll forms of harassment are prohibited.  Harassment is defined as any unwelcome verbal, written, or physical conduct that is sufficiently severe, pervasive, or persistent that creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment and interferes with, denies, or limits one’s access to or benefits of the employment and/or education environment.BullyingPersistent and chronic process of infliction of physical harm or psychological hard toward an individual.  Hazing“Hazing,” which is defined by Section 2903.31 of the Ohio Revised Code as “doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a drug of abuse as defined in section 3719.011 of the Revised Code. For the full anti-hazing policy, please click here. Bodily HarmInfliction or threat of infliction of bodily harm, whether done intentionally or with reckless disregard, including threat or action in retaliation for making allegations of misconduct, is prohibited.Retaliatory ActionThe University prohibits any reaction, statement, or behavior that is designed to retaliate, intimidate or punish an individual in response to an action, including, but not limited to: expressing an opinion, filing a report, cooperating with an investigation, grading an assignment or exam, or seeking guidance regarding a concern.  This includes any form of intimidation, threats or harassment, and will not be tolerated.Interfering with Student Code of Conduct ProcessAttempting to intimidate, coerce, or influence a person by any means in an effort to discourage, prevent or manipulate his/her participation in any student conduct process or proceeding is prohibited. Lewd or Indecent ConductAny unlawful behavior committed by an individual with the purpose of arousing sexual interest of him/herself or the person towards which the lewd act is directed is prohibited. Examples include, but are not limited to:Public nudityPossession of sexually explicit materialsTaking photos of another person without their knowledge or consent.LitteringLittering is prohibited on University premises.    Smoking/TobaccoThe use of tobacco-based cigarettes, unregulated nicotine products (e.g. vaping devices, e-cigarettes) and smokeless/chewing tobacco is prohibited in all University buildingsSolicitationSolicitation by non-affiliated persons or groups is prohibited, including any and all door-to-door solicitations in any campus building or University property. TechnologyAny unauthorized usage of Franklin's computers and technology resources, as defined in the University's Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy, is prohibited.The use of the University’s network and technology resources is a privilege, not a right, and inappropriate use will result in a cancellation of those privileges.  The University may request system administrators to deny, revoke, or suspend specific user accounts as the result of a student conduct incident.  The system administrators will determine what constitutes appropriate use, and may close an account at any time as required.Theft/Misuse of Property Theft is defined as obtaining or exerting control over property or services of others without their permission.  Trespassing/Unauthorized PresenceUnlawful or unauthorized entry into, use of, or presence in any campus building, room, or facility is prohibited. Student presence on University property or at a University-sponsored event off campus while under sanction that prohibits such presence are in violation of the student code of conduct.Student Code of Conduct Process                                                                                                  The following steps outline the process by which a possible violation is reviewed by the Office of Community Standards (OCS).  Please note that slight alterations of this process may be warranted per individual cases based upon a variety of criteria.Step 1:  Student Conduct ReportOCS receives a student conduct report from a member of the Campus Community or external entity. Upon receipt of this report, OCS reviews the report and may:Determine the information provided does not warrant further actionDetermine the information provided warrants an alternative resolution (e.g. informal resolution, collaboration with another office)Determine the information in the report warrants an official investigation*Note:  Community Members should make a concerted effort, if possible and reasonable, to attempt to informally resolve any concern with another party prior to submitting a Student Conduct Report. Students may contact OCS for assistance with this process.OCS will respond to the reporting party with the selected action within five calendar days of receipt of the report.Step 2:  InvestigationOCS engages in an information-gathering process regarding the report.  This process may include, but is not limited to, the following actions:Review the student conduct report form and any additional information provided by the reporting partyReview relevant student data housed in University systems Contact any identified parties named in the report.OCS will conclude any Student Code of Conduct investigation within five calendar days of receipt of Conduct Report.Step 3:  Charge(s)After conclusion of the investigation, OCS will determine if a student should be charged with a violation of the Student Code of Conduct.  If OCS determines a student should not be charged with a violation of the Student Code of Conduct, a notification letter will be provided to the student.Step 4: Notification of HearingIf OCS determines that a student should be charged with a violation of the Student Code of Conduct, a Meeting Request Letter is sent by email to the student.  The letter outlines a brief description of the Student Code of Conduct Report, Student Code of Conduct Charge(s) and instructions for scheduling a Student Code of Conduct Hearing.The Student must contact OCS to schedule a hearing within five calendar days of the date of the letter.  Should a student not schedule a Hearing during this time frame, the hearing will be held without the student’s participation.Step 5:  Student Code of Conduct HearingThe Hearing will be attended by two parties:  Two assigned Hearing Officers and the student.  During the hearing the student will be able to:Provide their perspective regarding the information contained in the reportRespond to questions from the hearing officers regarding the reportAsk questions regarding the report*Note:  Step 5 does not occur if the student does not contact OCS to schedule the hearing.Step 6:  DecisionA conclusion is made about the student code of conduct report per the preponderance of the evidence.  A preponderance of the evidence is stated as the greater weight of the evidence providing a conclusion. Hearing Officers provide a recommendation to the OCS Director. An outcome letter from OCS will be sent to the student within five calendar days of the conclusion of the Hearing.  The letter will detail the following:What was discussed during the HearingConclusions drawn from the discussion between both partiesThe Decision of Responsibility or Non-Responsibility and associated sanctionsInformation regarding the Petition for AppealStudent Code of Conduct Sanctions                                                                                                                                                       Sanctions are defined as a range of actions imposed by the University on a student that has violated the Student Code of Conduct Policy.  Sanctions are developed and applied based upon a variety of factors including, but not limited to:Nature of the violation(s)Level of harm toward the campus communityStudent intentStudent understanding of impact of action on the campus communityStudent conduct history Possible sanctions include but are not limited to:Written Warning A written letter issued by a hearing officer resulting from the student’s misconduct and subsequent review of the circumstances. This is an official notification of unacceptable behavior and a violation of the Student Code of Conduct.Loss of PrivilegesDenial of specified privileges or services for a designated period of time.  This may include University or Learning Commons-specific services (e.g., automated proctoring, etc.), and may also include temporary or permanently restricted access to on-campus areas.Reflective SanctionsSupportive and educational tasks or activities designed to foster reflection and help the student make more informed choices and demonstrate how future action will be impacted.Restorative SanctionsActions that provide constructive mechanisms to repair harm done by student action. This may include, but is not limited to, structured engagement with an impacted party(s) allowing the student(s) to show remorse for their actions.RestitutionCompensation for costs of damages to a person or property or for a misappropriation of property.  Restitution may take the form of appropriate services to repair or otherwise compensate for damages.  Restitution may be imposed in combination with any other penalty.FinesWhen appropriate, a financial penalty will be paid to the University within a designated timeframe, unless specific payment arrangements are made with approval of the Dean of Students. Failure to pay a fine constitutes a failure to comply with University authority and may result in further disciplinary action.ProbationA written reprimand which permits continuation of enrollment, but may impose certain requirements on the student for a specified period of time.  Any further violations by the student under probation will likely result in progressively more severe sanctions.SuspensionThe loss of privileges of enrollment at the University for a designated period of time, which prohibits the student from being present on University premises without prior permission.  During this period of separation, the suspension will be noted on the student’s academic transcript.  Conditions for readmission may be specified.Interim Action/SuspensionActions taken by the University pending action on charges or in emergency situations.  This  may include but is not limited, suspension from participation in any University function, or  Loss of Privileges as a student                           Disciplinary DismissalThe permanent loss of privileges of enrollment at the University, which prohibits the student's presence on University premises without prior permission. The disciplinary dismissal will be noted on the student’s academic transcript.  Student access to University systems (e.g. Student email, Self-Service, Canvas, Library services) will be removed.  *Please note:  Removal of Student access to University systems may impact enrollment in any Franklin-sponsored courses or certificates provided by a 3rd party vendor.Denial of Entry/Re-EnrollmentThe permanent loss of privileges to enroll or re-enroll at the University and prohibits the student's presence on University property without prior permission.*To view the Appeals Process and Procedures, please navigate to the appeals section (at the end of this document if PDF, or a link online).






			
  Academic Misconduct

			


What is academic misconduct?Academic misconduct is defined as any activity that tends to compromise the academic integrity of the university or subvert the educational process and the university’s process to address such concerns.  Franklin University defines academic misconduct in five primary categories.Categories of Academic MisconductPlagiarismDefined as the act of copying content from an external source and submitting it as one’s own work without appropriate citations and credit to the original author as applicable.  Sources can be artificial intelligence tools, textbooks, course postings, websites, previously submitted assignments, and so on. Regardless of the source, students are expected to give credit to the original author with APA citations. If an idea is being paraphrased in the student’s own words, credit must still be attributed to the source.Please note: Any unauthorized use of A.I. tools and similar software to produce academic work, in whole or in part, including assignments, exams, class postings, or research, is considered an act of plagiarism and is not permitted unless the Lead Faculty for the course has explicitly granted permission to do so in advance.  Students are expected to refrain from using such tools and rely on course textbooks, Learning Commons resources, and approved online sources to assist them in completing their assignments.  Failure to do so may result in a report of suspected academic misconduct and possible sanctions.Recycling AssignmentsAlso known as self-plagiarism, the recycling assignments violation occurs when work, previously submitted for credit, is re-submitted for further credit at a later date.Please note:  Students must receive permission from their course instructor to recycle any part or the entirety of previous work that has been evaluated for credit.Exam MisconductDefined as committing academic misconduct in the course of taking any proctored exam or like instrument.  Violations may include, but are not limited to:the use of restricted materials during an examseeking online solutions to questions using their computer or handheld deviceutilizing in-person assistance from a test proctor or other individual in the area  Facilitation of Academic MisconductDefined as the willful act to assist another student to commit an act of academic misconduct.  Facilitation may take various forms, such as sharing exam answers with another student or providing another student with past course assignments for them to copy and submit for credit.Please note: The sharing of coursework between students is permissible, but only in the context of helping them to better grasp course material so they can then submit their own original work.FabricationFabrication is the act of falsifying, manipulating or manufacturing erroneous data, citations or references in an assignment, course project or examination.  Academic Misconduct ProcedureStep 1: Submission of Academic Misconduct ReportThe Office of Community Standards (OCS) receives a report of suspected academic misconduct from a member of the Campus Community or external entity.  Upon receipt of this report, OCS reviews the report and may:Determine the information provided does not warrant further actionDetermine the information in the report warrants an official inquiryStep 2: InquiryIf it is determined that the report has sufficient grounds to continue, OCS emails a letter to the student's Franklin email account, informing them of the report and instructs them to contact their course instructor within five calendar days in order to schedule a good faith discussion.Step 3:  Good Faith DiscussionDuring the Good Faith Discussion the instructor will:Present the evidence that led to the report being filedProvide the student an opportunity to respond to the reportAsk any relevant questions of the student regarding the reportIf the student does not comply with the meeting request letter and initiate contact for a good faith discussion within the five-calendar day deadline, the Office of Community Standards will ask the course instructor to render their decision based solely on the evidence, without the input of the student.Step 4:  DecisionA conclusion is reached regarding the report.  Faculty member completes the Academic Misconduct Decision Report.  OCS then issues an outcome letter to the student within five calendar days of reception of the Academic Misconduct Decision Report. The letter will detail the following:What was discussed during the Good Faith DiscussionConclusions drawn from the discussion between both partiesThe Decision of Responsible or Not Responsible and associated sanctionsInformation regarding the Petition for AppealSanctionsSanctions are defined as a range of actions imposed by the University on a student who has violated the Academic Conduct Policy.  Such sanctions may include:Written WarningZero Grade on Assignment/ExamFailing Grade in CourseSuspensionThe loss of privileges of enrollment at the University for a designated period of time, which prohibits the student from being present on University premises without prior permission.  During this period of separation, the suspension will be noted on the student’s academic transcript.  Conditions for readmission may be specified.Disciplinary DismissalThe permanent loss of privileges of enrollment at the University, which prohibits the student's presence on University premises without prior permission. The disciplinary dismissal will be noted on the student’s academic transcript. Student access to University systems (e.g. Student email, Self-Service, Canvas) will be removed. *Note:  Removal of student access to University systems may impact enrollment in any Franklin-sponsored courses or certificates provided by a 3rd party vendor.






			
  Process for Responding to Student Disruption

			


IntroductionFranklin University values and promotes a learning environment that provides the free exchange of ideas within the context of mutual respect and professionalism.  This principle is paramount toward student learning within the Franklin Community.  At times, student behavior may be misaligned with this principle, causing conflict with Franklin’s Community Standards.  The purpose of this guide is to provide direction to faculty, staff and students regarding how to address student conflict with Franklin’s Community Standards.What is defined as Student DisruptionConduct that disrupts or prevents the facilitation of any University process or procedure.  Examples in the classroom include but are not limited to: 1) A student who utilizes inappropriate conflict resolution techniques with classmates or the instructor (e.g., uses profanity or other derogatory language);  2)  A student who consistently interrupts the instructor or other classmates during a class meeting.  Examples outside the classroom can include but are not limited to:  a) A student consistently using an escalated tone and language during interactions with staff;  b)  A student refusing to acknowledge and follow the instructions of a staff member.Process for Responding to Student Disruption The faculty, staff member or student demonstrates a good faith effort to communicate with the student regarding the disruption.  A live in-person discussion (phone or video communication) is preferable; however, in some cases a written communication can suffice (i.e., email).  Communication should occur within five calendar days of the disruption.Should the disruption continue to exist after communication occurs, the faculty, staff member or student should file a Student Conduct Report with the Office of Community Standards.   A member of the Office of Community Standards (OCS) will evaluate the report and determine if a violation of Franklin's Student Code of Conduct has occurred.  The Office of Community Standards will subsequently communicate the outcome of this evaluation with the reporting party.  The report should be filed within five calendar days post the communication with the student.Should the report demonstrate a Student Code of Conduct violation, OCS sends a written notification to the student indicating the alleged violation(s), and requesting the student schedule a conference with the Director of the Office of Community Standards.  The purpose of the conference is to reach an informal resolution regarding the matter.  The resulting notification should be issued within five calendar days of receiving the report.  The student will then have five business days (i.e. Monday through Friday) to respond to set up a conference date and time.Upon conclusion of the meeting between the Director of Community Standards and student, OCS will send a letter to the student that provides the following:  1) What violation(s) of the Community Process were validated;  2) A summary of the conversation; and  3) Expectation(s) of the student moving forward.  This letter should be sent within five business days after meeting with the student. **Note:  if the student fails to respond to the conference request, the Director of Community Standards or Designee will provide a letter to the student that identifies 1) What violation(s) of the Student Code of Conduct were validated, and 2) Expectations of the student moving forward.Should a subsequent report be received demonstrating similar conduct by the student, OCS will utilize the aforementioned evaluation process to determine if an alleged violation of the Student Code of Conduct occurred.  If a determination is made that a subsequent violation did occur, the student will be required to participate in a Student Code of Conduct hearing.  ConsiderationsAggravating Factors:  Reports that provide factors that dictate potential harm to a member of the Campus Community, or the Campus Community as a whole, may warrant reports being escalated directly to a Student Conduct Hearing in addition to other immediate interim action.Student Withdrawal from the Institution:  Should a student choose to withdraw from the Institution prior to a Conference or Student Code of Conduct Hearing, the process will be held in abeyance.  Should the student choose to reenroll at the university the process will be reconvened.






			
  Student Grievances

			


What is a Student Grievance?A Student Grievance is a complaint, allegation, or concern reported by a student regarding their experience in the campus community, or with the University as a whole. Student Grievance ProcedureStep 1:   Submission of Formal Student GrievanceThe Office of Community Standards (OCS) receives a Formal Student Grievance from a student.  Upon receipt of this grievance, OCS reviews the report and may:Determine the information provided does not warrant further actionDetermine the information provided warrants an alternative resolution (informal resolution, collaboration with another office)Determine the information in the report warrants an official investigation Step 2:  InvestigationOCS (or designee) engages in an information-gathering process regarding the Formal Student Grievance.  This process may include, but is not limited, to the following actions:Review the Formal Student Grievance and any additional information provided by the reporting partyReview relevant student data housed in University systems Contact any identified parties named in the reportOCS will conclude the Formal Student Grievance investigation within 15 calendar days of receipt of the Formal Student Grievance Form.Step 3:  DecisionA conclusion is made in response to the Formal Student Grievance per the preponderance of the evidence. An outcome letter is sent to the student within five calendar days of completion of the inquiry.  The letter will detail the following:A review of the Formal Student GrievanceInformation learned during the investigation of the Formal Student GrievanceConclusions drawn from the investigationIf the Formal Student Grievance is ultimately upheld or deniedIf denied, information regarding Petition for Appeal     






			
  Student Appeal Process

			


What is a Student Appeal?An appeal is a formal challenge of a recent Student Code of Conduct, Academic Misconduct or Student Grievance decision.  An appeal is initiated by completing the Petition for Appeal Form.Appeal CriteriaStudents must choose one or more criteria when submitting an appeal:The established procedures used to process the case (academic misconduct, non-academic misconduct, official student grievance) were not followed per University policy, which resulted in material harm or prejudice to the student.  Deviations from designated procedures are not a basis for sustaining an appeal unless material harm or prejudice results have occurred.Discovery of substantial new evidence that was unavailable at the time of the hearing or investigation that could reasonably have affected the outcome. This new information must be included with the Petition of Appeal.The sanction imposed (if applicable) was not applied per University policy and/or was disproportionate to the nature of the violation or circumstances.  In cases in which a charged student has accepted responsibility, such appeals are limited to having the severity of the sanction reviewed. Appeal Review ProcessStep1:  PetitionA Petition for Appeal Form is submitted to the student to the Office of Community Standards.Step 2: Preliminary ReviewOCS conducts a preliminary review to determine if the appeal meets appropriate criteria; if it does, the appeal is forwarded to the following parties:Academic Misconduct Appeals:  Dean of the Academic College (or designee) in which the appeal originatedNon-Academic Misconduct Appeals or Grievances:  Dean of Students (or designee) Step 3:   InvestigationAppeal Officer engages in an information-gathering process.  This process may include, but is not limited, to the following actions:Review the Petition for Appeal form and any additional information provided by the reporting partyReview relevant student data housed in University systems Contact any identified parties named in the report The appeal review may take up to 15 calendar days, depending on the complexity of the issues involved. Step 4:  DecisionA conclusion is made about the appeal per the preponderance of the evidence. An outcome letter will be sent by email to the student within five calendar days of the conclusion of the investigation.  The letter will identify one of the following actions as the outcome of the appeal decision:Uphold the original decision and/or sanction(s);Dismiss the case or individual charge(s) against the student and vacate any portion or all of the sanctions;Modify the severity of the sanction(s); orDismiss the current case and re-start the appropriate process. This decision is final and not subject to further appeals.











Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms