URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/bachelors/computer-science
Computer Science Degree | Online Computer Science BS | Franklin.edu



















B.S. Computer Science
 

  

124Credit Hours76%Max Transfer CreditClass Type100% online, 6 & 12-week coursesNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025
                                                              Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025
                                                              Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025
                                                              Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026
                                                              Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026
                                                              Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026
                                                              Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Cost Per Credit$398  | Estimate Your CostTuition GuaranteeLock-In Your Tuition Rate from Day OneThe Franklin University Tuition Guarantee locks-in your first-term tuition rate for the duration of your associate, bachelor’s or master’s degree program, for as long as you remain actively enrolled. Curriculum AlignmentACM/IEEE-CSTransfer ToolRequest InfoApply Today

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Bachelor's Degrees
                /  
                                              Computer Science
                          

  Computer Science Bachelor's Degree Program


What do creative thinking, problem solving, competitive salaries and a high-demand field have in common? They're all just a few of the many things a bachelor's degree in computer science has going for it. With the transfer-friendly Computer Science degree program at Franklin, you'll be well-prepared to investigate, assess, design and collaborate on the creation of technology-based solutions that literally change how business is done.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Language-Independent Curriculum
Acquire the foundation that'll keep you relevant through technology changes.



  Hands-On Assignments
Team with peers on cutting-edge software development projects.



  Finish Faster
Transfer up to 94 previously earned college credits.



  Innovative Curriculum
Learn from the program developed under international curricular guidelines.



  Accredited Online University
Nearly 80% of our students take online courses.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced technology leaders.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.










  Computer Science Degree Overview





  Power business with robust and scalable software solutions

The allure of a top salary in a high-demand field is one thing a degree in computer science has going for it -- but it’s far from the only. With Franklin's online Computer Science bachelor's degree program, you’ll be solidly grounded in software development, building skills that prepare you to readily adapt to an ever-changing environment throughout your career.Our program is language independent; meaning you’ll learn widely used languages and build industrial and reusable software components with cutting-edge Java technology. The development knowledge you gain won’t become obsolete. As a result, you’ll be well prepared to not only apply, but also shape and influence dynamic and emerging technologies.Franklin’s Computer Science courses include the development of significant, high-level technical skills, giving you the opportunity to achieve software development capabilities while you receive your foundational education in these key areas: Object-Oriented Design, Computer Architecture, Coding & Testing, Web Application Development, and Database Management.Engineer your own robust, interactive applicationsCoursework at Franklin is very practical and hands-on, so you’ll team with other students on cutting-edge software development projects that simulate a real-world industrial environment. Franklin’s Computer Science curriculum is designed so each class provides a logical progression, giving you the opportunity to assume roles of increasing responsibility as you move toward completing your computer science degree.At Franklin, you’ll have the opportunity to work on pivotal projects, like creating database-driven web applications with interactive AJAX components. Along the way, you’ll gain exposure to Java, C, Scheme, and Prolog programming languages, as well as popular client/server development technologies like JSP, XHTML, and XML.Learn from the real-world experiences of high-level professionalsTaught by real-world computer professionals and practitioners, our Computer Science program faculty currently work in the field or have held high-level industry positions. And because Franklin’s online Computer Science bachelor's program is strongly rooted in the ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Computing Curricula, you’ll learn under the international curricular guidelines for undergraduate programs in computing.In addition, you’ll have the opportunity to build a professional network through collaborative coursework and our student chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Committee on Women in Computing (ACM-W).Earn your B.S. in Computer Science online or on campus from a university built for busy adultsEarn your degree on your terms by taking classes 100% online. Accredited and nonprofit, Franklin was built from the ground-up to satisfy the needs of adult learners. Our seamless transfer process and team of academic advisors will help ease your transition to becoming a student, while our flexible course schedules help to balance your education with work, family and life. Get started on your future today.Read more >



DJ
B.S. Computer Science Graduate
"I truly enjoyed my classes at Franklin. My professors actually worked in the field and could help me understand the reasons and benefits to different programming and database situations. The things they brought from the real world helped make my job easier." 







  Future Start Date




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 








   Your Best Value B.S. Computer Science 




Choose Franklin's B.S. Computer Science and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and budget.     







Affordable Tuition


$398
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates provide value and quality.






Keep the Credit You've Earned


53
AVG TRANSFER HOURS

On average, students transfer in 40% of the credits required.







Transfer MORE Credits, Pay LESS tuition*



$11,940
|
$28,258


Max Transfer Credits
Avg Transfer Credits

*$398 per credit, 124 Total Credits, 94 maximum transfer credits, 53 average transfer credits.








Partner? Pay Less.

Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional 
organization partnership.








$49,352
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








×








  Computer Science Courses & Curriculum




				124 Semester Hours
			


				Fundamental General Education			



								English Composition							



ENG 120 - College Writing (4)
In this course, students acquire the writing competencies necessary for completing analytical and argumentative papers supported by secondary research. A variety of assignments, beginning with personal reflections, build upon one another, as students develop ideas that respond to, critique, and synthesize the positions of others. Students systematize and organize knowledge in ways that will help them in all their courses. The course also emphasizes the elements of critical reading, effective writing style, appropriate grammar and mechanics, clarity of language, and logical and cohesive development. It culminates in submission of an extended, documented research paper.




								Mathematics							



MATH 160 - College Algebra (4)
This course is designed to prepare students for Applied Calculus and Discrete Mathematics and to provide the mathematical background needed for the analytic reasoning used in other courses. Topics include functions and their graphs, including exponential and logarithmic functions; complex numbers; systems of equations and inequalities; matrices; basic principles of counting and probability; and other selected topics. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


																					AND																			

Take MATH 150 Fundamental Algebra as the prerequisite and earn a minimum grade of “C". Course can count as a University elective.




								Social and Behavioral Sciences							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Anthropology, Geography, History, Political Science, Psychology, or Sociology disciplines.
										




								Science							




											6 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Two courses from the Science discipline. One course must have a lab component.
										




								Arts & Humanities							



HUMN 211 - Introduction to Critical Ethics (2)
Critical Ethics uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition. Accordingly, the goal of this course is to help the student improve his/her ethical analysis and evaluation skills to help the student do the thing that must be done, when it ought to be done, using critical thinking.


																					AND																			


											4 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Choose from the Art, English Literature, Fine Arts, Humanities, Music, Philosophy, Religion or Theater disciplines.
										






				Additional General Education			




PF 121 - Basic Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferrable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for time management, goal setting, reading comprehension, and advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments.
OR PF 321 - Learning Strategies (2)
This course prepares students to be successful lifelong learners both academically and in their chosen careers. Franklin courses require a high level of self-directed learning and focus on the skills required in the workplace and the classroom that are easily transferable between the two environments. The course includes strategies for advancing communication skills, including the use of electronic tools to participate in virtual environments. The assignments and activities in the course are created to closely simulate teamwork found in the workplace.


																					AND																			

SPCH 100 - Speech Communication (4)
This basic public-speaking course intends to improve the student's ability to think critically and to communicate orally. Theory and practice are provided in various speaking situations. Each student is required to speak before an audience, but class work also involves reading, gathering and organizing information, writing, and listening.
OR COMM 150 - Interpersonal Communication (4)
By using applied critical and creative thinking, students in this course will develop a set of communication skills that will enhance their personal and professional relationships and endeavors. This course will focus on skill development in key areas such as self, perception, listening, verbal messages, conversations, relationships, conflict management, persuasion, and presentation skills.


																					AND																			

ENG 220 - Research Writing: Exploring Professional Identities (4)
This is an intermediate course focusing on the composition of research papers. Students in this course prepare to be active participants in professional discourse communities by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their own fields of study and work. By calling attention to the conventions of disciplinary writing, the course also prepares students for upper-division college writing and the special conventions of advanced academic discourse. Course activities include three extended research papers, semi-formal writing addressing interdisciplinary communication, and readings fostering critical engagement with disciplinary conversations.


MATH 215 - Statistical Concepts (4)
This course introduces you to statistics with applications to various areas. The course covers both descriptive and inferential statistics. Topics included are: sampling techniques, data types, experiments; measures of central tendency, measures of dispersion, graphical displays of data, basic probability concepts, binomial and normal probability distributions, sampling distributions and Central Limit Theorem; confidence intervals, hypothesis tests of a mean, or a proportion for one or two populations, and linear regression.





				Professional Core			




COMP 111 - Introduction to Computer Science & Object-Oriented Programming (4)
This course provides an introduction to software construction using an object-oriented approach. The student learns and reflects on problem analysis, object-oriented design, implementation, and testing. To support the concepts and principles of software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. Basic data types, control structures, methods, and classes are used as the building blocks for reusable software components. Automated unit testing, programming style, and industrial practice are emphasized in addition to the object-oriented techniques of abstraction, encapsulation, and composition. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


COMP 201 - Principles of Computer Organization (2)
This course is the first of four courses that holistically explore the structure of computational systems. This course deals with the nature of computer hardware. The course will cover the structure of current computer systems at the level of functional organization, representation of data and programs, the design of the memory hierarchy, and, the design of the I/O system. The course will introduce basic assembly language.


COMP 204 - Principles of Computer Networks (2)
This course serves as an introduction to the function, design, administration, and implementation of computer networks. Topics include network infrastructure, architecture, protocols, applications, and the OSI networking model. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


COMP 281 - Database Management Systems (4)
This course, Database Management Systems, covers the fundamental concepts necessary for the design, use, implementation, and administration of database systems. The course will stress the fundamentals of database modeling and design, the languages and facilities provided by database management systems, and some techniques for implementing and administering database systems.


COMP 294 - Computer Science Practicum I (2)
This is the first practicum course in the Computer Science program. It provides experience in an on-going software development project. A student at this level will be given an assignment in a team similar to that of a new hire in industry. The software development project will require the student to apply industry best practices in completing an assignment for the project.


COMP 101 - Problem Solving With Computing (2)
Many organizations today utilize computers and information systems to store, organize, analyze, and summarize data to solve problems.  As a result, computing is a tool that can benefit students in many different fields.  At the heart of solving problems with computers is the study of structured thinking using algorithms.  This course is designed for students with no prior programming experience and teaches the building blocks of algorithms, including variables, expressions, selection and repetition structures, functions and parameters, and array processing.


CLOUD 200 - Cloud Fundamentals (2)
This course explores the concepts of cloud computing, including financial impacts and business value, financial requirements, deployment, risks, and security. Hands-on exercises help students to gain experience with cloud computing environments, identifying technical and security requirements for given deployment scenarios, implementing the proposed cloud deployment scenario, and troubleshooting technical issues of existing cloud computing scenarios.


CYSC 200 - Cybersecurity Fundamentals (2)
The Internet has changed dramatically; so have the activities that are dependent on it in some shape or form. Understanding the need for security, it's influence on people, businesses and society, as well as business drivers is critical. The course also covers malicious attacks, threats and vulnerabilities common to the world of security, as well as access controls, and methods to assess and respond to risks. Hands-on labs accompany the various concepts that are taught.


																					AND																			

COMP 121 - Object-Oriented Data Structures & Algorithms I (4)
This course continues the objected-oriented approach to software construction. The student learns and reflects on advanced object-oriented techniques, algorithm efficiency, class hierarchies, and data structures. To support the concepts and principles of software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. Design principles, I/O, exception handling, linear data structures (lists, stacks, and queues), and design patterns are emphasized in addition to the object-oriented techniques of inheritance and polymorphism. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).
OR COMP 511 - Foundation Data Struc & Obj Orntd Design (4)
This course continues the object-oriented approach to intermediate-level software development. The student will learn and reflect on fundamental object-oriented analysis techniques, basic design patterns, and linear data structures such as lists and queues.





				Major Area Required			




COMP 321 - Application Server Programming (4)
This course provides an introduction to server-based programming using an object-oriented approach. The student learns and reflects on two- and three-tier software architectures, separation of responsibility, and design patterns. In order to support the concepts and principles of server-based software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. HTML/CSS/XML, JDBC, Java Server Pages, and Java Servlets are used as the implementation mechanisms for Model 1 and Model 2 web applications.


COMP 323 - Fundamentals of Operating Systems (4)
TThis course introduces the major topics of computer operating systems such as processes, threads, synchronization and inter-process communication, processor scheduling, memory management, I/O, file systems, and issues in security. Students will also learn to solve operating system problems using multi-threaded programming.


COMP 394 - Computer Science Practicum II (2)
This is the second practicum course in the Computer Science program. It provides experience in an on-going software development project. A student at this level will be given an assignment in a team similar to that of an experienced team member or as a team leader in industry. The software development project will require the student to apply industry best practices in completing an assignment for the project.


COMP 495 - Computer Science Practicum Iii/Capstone (4)
This is the third and final practicum course in the Computer Science program. During this course, you will have the opportunity to lead a realistic software development project. As seniors, you will be given an assignment similar to that of a project manager who is responsible for planning and coordinating all project tasks. You may also be responsible for completing tasks that require advanced-level skills/expertise. In addition to project work, you will complete introspective assignments designed to help you synthesize your overall experience in the program.

There is a basic structure for all three practicum classes. During the first week, students will apply for and receive assignments for the term. The senior roles will be assigned first, and the instructor, along with the assigned senior managers, will then make the rest of the assignments. All assignments need to be in place by week two. The next step will be to arrange team meetings during the second week to kick off the project.

Remember that all of your work will be stored by Franklin and can be compiled to create a professional portfolio to be shown to prospective employers. Consequently, you should submit excellent work and consciously produce good writing.


MATH 320 - Discrete Mathematics (4)
This course introduces students to fundamental algebraic, logical, and combinational concepts in mathematics that are needed in upper-division computer science courses. Topics include sets, mappings, and relations; elementary counting principles; proof techniques with an emphasis on mathematical induction; graphs and directed graphs; Boolean algebras; recursion; and applications to computer science.


COMP 215 - Programming Language: Principles & Practice (4)
This course conveys a high-level vision of programming language theory and a survey of programming languages representing different paradigms. It begins with the concepts and methodologies that underlie all programming languages such as syntax, grammar, semantics, and subroutines. An assortment of programming paradigms is introduced to provide insight into both the traditional imperative and some alternative approaches to program development. The key issues in designing and using programming languages are revisited through studying and writing programs in three different languages. 


																					AND																			

COMP 311 - Object-Oriented Data Structures & Algorithms II (4)
This course is the third of four courses using the objected-oriented approach to software construction. The student learns and reflects on non-linear data structures, recursive algorithms, algorithm efficiency, and design patterns. To support the concepts and principles of software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. Implementation and analysis of sets, maps, balanced binary search trees, heaps, hashing and hash tables, graphs and graph algorithms, and efficient sorting algorithms are addressed.
OR COMP 611 - Advanced Data Structures and Programming (4)
This course covers key knowledge and skills for advanced software development using the object-oriented approach. The student learns, manipulates and reflects on nonlinear data structures such as trees and heaps. Recursive algorithms, sorting algorithms, algorithm efficiency, and advanced design patterns are addressed. To support the advanced concepts and principles of software development, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs with increased scale and complexity using industry's best practices (such as GitHub) and the Java programming language.





				Major Electives			




At least 12 credits from the following courses:
COMP 325 - Human-Computer Interaction  (4)
This course covers a broad range of important topics within Human-Computer Interaction and its implications for the design of interactive systems. By understanding the user's viewpoint and technology's effect on people, we can better plan for the selection, design, implementation, and use of technology so that the effects are positive rather than negative. The focus is on the design of interactive systems and human-computer interfaces. The course will cover the current literature and the knowns and unknowns of Human-Computer Interaction and design. The design process is centered on the user and is based on a multidisciplinary approach that synthesizes computer science, cognitive science, and psychology. Human-computer interface designers also use analytical and empirical techniques to assess, predict, and evaluate whether a design meets user requirements.

During this course, you will focus on 3 major types of assignments:

Written assignments on HCI principles and system design.
A project during which you will demonstrate your ability to apply HCI principles to design a software interface.
A journal where you will record and reflect on your observations related to your studies in the course.
COMP 461 - Enterprise Software Architecture  (4)
This course reinforces and extends client-server programming concepts to enterprise applications. It introduces Enterprise Java Bean technologies such as JNDI, EJBs and EJB Containers. It explores the current use of XML and XSLT for data representation and communication. The course studies the application of patterns in the design of enterprise architectures. Finally, the course introduces emerging topics related to Web enterprise applications.
COMP 471 - Software Testing  (4)
In this course, we will review the traditional software testing techniques that are applicable to any software product, as well as learn techniques for the paradigm of test-driven development. Continuous delivery and its impact on testing will be discussed. We will also discover how innovative companies are able to build testing and quality into every stage of the development process and deliver a multitude of releases with a relatively small testing organization. We will practice test creation and testing techniques through assignments, individual projects, and group projects. Concepts covered include:

test cycles
testing objectives
testing in the software development process
types of software errors
reporting and analyzing software errors
problem tracking systems
test case design
testing tools
test planning
test documentation
managing a test group
test-driven development principles
continuous delivery principles and their impact on testing
COMP 480 - Special Topics in Computer Science  (1-4)
This course introduces students to the Internet of Things (IoT) systems: basic electronics and electrical components for IoT applications, IoT Systems-on-Chips (SoC), and embedded systems. The course provides students with hands-on experience on selected IoT hardware (Raspberry Pi and Arduino), IoT software development in Python and C++, and IoT simulation in TinkerCAD. The course introduces IoT communication protocols (MQTT and COAP) and IoT edge and cloud integration. Students implement multiple labs and one capstone project to demonstrate mastering of the course concepts and skills.  
COMP 486 - Object-Oriented Analysis & Design  (4)
This course studies the process of designing software systems both from the view of process and from the view of requirements, analysis and the synthesis of a viable software design. It builds on the concepts from the programming sequence to examine the aspects of good design practice.
DATA 300 - Introduction to Analytics  (4)
This course introduces the fundamentals of Business and Data Analytics. Students will learn business problem framing, data wrangling, descriptive and inferential statistics, data visualization, and data storytelling in analytics.
DATA 310 - Data Visualization  (4)
This course introduces data visualization fundamentals using the leading visualization tools in the industry and focuses on project-based learning. Students will learn how to develop dashboards and discover insight effectively based on data.
DATA 400 - Principles of Machine Learning  (4)
Students will learn the basic concepts behind major machine learning algorithms, the essential steps for creating a typical machine learning model, the strengths and weaknesses of different algorithms, and the model evaluation using different performance metrics. Eventually, students will be able to build a prediction model by machine learning algorithm using Python language. The common problems in practical machine learning exercises and their solutions also will be discussed.
MIS 310 - Info Systems Architecture & Technology  (4)
This course provides a conceptual survey of general systems theory followed by a conceptual and technological survey of the structure of distributed information systems architectures, operating systems, network operating systems, peripheral technology and user interfaces. Interoperability between these architectural components will be explored and current technology and trends in each architectural element will be reviewed. This course will de-emphasize, although not ignore, mainframe architectures in favor of information architectures more applicable to client/server computing. The various interacting categories of client/server computing as well as the benefits and implications of such a system will be fully explored.
WEBD 325 - Mobile Programming  (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of mobile app programming for mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets as well as providing a survey of current mobile platforms, mobile application development environments, and mobile device input and output methods. Students will design and build a variety of Apps throughout the course to reinforce learning and to develop real competency.
BUSA 350 - Principles of Analytics Modeling  (4)
This course introduces the principles of analytics modeling. Students will learn exploratory data analytics, regression, classification, clustering, model interpretation, and model evaluation.
CYSC 300 - Information Assurance  (4)
In a highly connected, data intensive, and cost-focused business environment, the practice of information security is not a business advantage; it is a customer requirement. Malware and exploits including ransomware, viruses,  trojans, denial of service attacks, phishing, and even Wiki leaks have become headline news. Failure to insure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data costs companies millions, if not billions of dollars in legal settlements, lost business, and trade secrets. In this course, you will get an overview of information security principles and practices, including security models, risk management, access controls, intrusion detection and prevention (IDS/IPS), cryptography, software vulnerabilities, and ethical issues. Subsequent courses expand on this foundational material in much greater depth. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).
CYSC 400 - Application Security  (4)
Software vulnerabilities, especially those that compromise personal or financial data, are appallingly common. Nearly every major software company has dealt with the fallout of a major incident due to vulnerabilities in their products. Developing correct - let alone secure - software is very difficult. Yet users and executives expect it. In this course, you will learn about the typical development mistakes that lead to application-level security issues as well as how to defend against each.. Students will explore the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) top 10 security vulnerabilities. Topics include unchecked user input, injection, fuzzing, CSRF, XSS, cryptography, CAPTCHA, configuration errors, authentication, and authorization. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).





				University Electives			





											22 credits from the following types of courses:
											
											Any undergraduate courses offered by the University except developmental education courses.
										





				Optional Focus Areas			




Students may complete a focus area to fulfill the Major Area Elective requirement.


																					OR																			
Software Architecture and Engineering:

MIS 310 - Info Systems Architecture & Technology (4)
This course provides a conceptual survey of general systems theory followed by a conceptual and technological survey of the structure of distributed information systems architectures, operating systems, network operating systems, peripheral technology and user interfaces. Interoperability between these architectural components will be explored and current technology and trends in each architectural element will be reviewed. This course will de-emphasize, although not ignore, mainframe architectures in favor of information architectures more applicable to client/server computing. The various interacting categories of client/server computing as well as the benefits and implications of such a system will be fully explored.
COMP 461 - Enterprise Software Architecture (4)
This course reinforces and extends client-server programming concepts to enterprise applications. It introduces Enterprise Java Bean technologies such as JNDI, EJBs and EJB Containers. It explores the current use of XML and XSLT for data representation and communication. The course studies the application of patterns in the design of enterprise architectures. Finally, the course introduces emerging topics related to Web enterprise applications.
COMP 486 - Object-Oriented Analysis & Design (4)
This course studies the process of designing software systems both from the view of process and from the view of requirements, analysis and the synthesis of a viable software design. It builds on the concepts from the programming sequence to examine the aspects of good design practice.
COMP 471 - Software Testing (4)
In this course, we will review the traditional software testing techniques that are applicable to any software product, as well as learn techniques for the paradigm of test-driven development. Continuous delivery and its impact on testing will be discussed. We will also discover how innovative companies are able to build testing and quality into every stage of the development process and deliver a multitude of releases with a relatively small testing organization. We will practice test creation and testing techniques through assignments, individual projects, and group projects. Concepts covered include:

test cycles
testing objectives
testing in the software development process
types of software errors
reporting and analyzing software errors
problem tracking systems
test case design
testing tools
test planning
test documentation
managing a test group
test-driven development principles
continuous delivery principles and their impact on testing


																					OR																			
Data Analytics:

DATA 300 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course introduces the fundamentals of Business and Data Analytics. Students will learn business problem framing, data wrangling, descriptive and inferential statistics, data visualization, and data storytelling in analytics.
DATA 310 - Data Visualization (4)
This course introduces data visualization fundamentals using the leading visualization tools in the industry and focuses on project-based learning. Students will learn how to develop dashboards and discover insight effectively based on data.
DATA 400 - Principles of Machine Learning (4)
Students will learn the basic concepts behind major machine learning algorithms, the essential steps for creating a typical machine learning model, the strengths and weaknesses of different algorithms, and the model evaluation using different performance metrics. Eventually, students will be able to build a prediction model by machine learning algorithm using Python language. The common problems in practical machine learning exercises and their solutions also will be discussed.
BUSA 350 - Principles of Analytics Modeling (4)
This course introduces the principles of analytics modeling. Students will learn exploratory data analytics, regression, classification, clustering, model interpretation, and model evaluation.


																					OR																			
Web and Mobile Development:

COMP 325 - Human-Computer Interaction (4)
This course covers a broad range of important topics within Human-Computer Interaction and its implications for the design of interactive systems. By understanding the user's viewpoint and technology's effect on people, we can better plan for the selection, design, implementation, and use of technology so that the effects are positive rather than negative. The focus is on the design of interactive systems and human-computer interfaces. The course will cover the current literature and the knowns and unknowns of Human-Computer Interaction and design. The design process is centered on the user and is based on a multidisciplinary approach that synthesizes computer science, cognitive science, and psychology. Human-computer interface designers also use analytical and empirical techniques to assess, predict, and evaluate whether a design meets user requirements.

During this course, you will focus on 3 major types of assignments:

Written assignments on HCI principles and system design.
A project during which you will demonstrate your ability to apply HCI principles to design a software interface.
A journal where you will record and reflect on your observations related to your studies in the course.
WEBD 325 - Mobile Programming (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of mobile app programming for mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets as well as providing a survey of current mobile platforms, mobile application development environments, and mobile device input and output methods. Students will design and build a variety of Apps throughout the course to reinforce learning and to develop real competency.
COMP 486 - Object-Oriented Analysis & Design (4)
This course studies the process of designing software systems both from the view of process and from the view of requirements, analysis and the synthesis of a viable software design. It builds on the concepts from the programming sequence to examine the aspects of good design practice.
COMP 471 - Software Testing (4)
In this course, we will review the traditional software testing techniques that are applicable to any software product, as well as learn techniques for the paradigm of test-driven development. Continuous delivery and its impact on testing will be discussed. We will also discover how innovative companies are able to build testing and quality into every stage of the development process and deliver a multitude of releases with a relatively small testing organization. We will practice test creation and testing techniques through assignments, individual projects, and group projects. Concepts covered include:

test cycles
testing objectives
testing in the software development process
types of software errors
reporting and analyzing software errors
problem tracking systems
test case design
testing tools
test planning
test documentation
managing a test group
test-driven development principles
continuous delivery principles and their impact on testing


																					OR																			
Software Development Security:

MIS 310 - Info Systems Architecture & Technology (4)
This course provides a conceptual survey of general systems theory followed by a conceptual and technological survey of the structure of distributed information systems architectures, operating systems, network operating systems, peripheral technology and user interfaces. Interoperability between these architectural components will be explored and current technology and trends in each architectural element will be reviewed. This course will de-emphasize, although not ignore, mainframe architectures in favor of information architectures more applicable to client/server computing. The various interacting categories of client/server computing as well as the benefits and implications of such a system will be fully explored.
COMP 471 - Software Testing (4)
In this course, we will review the traditional software testing techniques that are applicable to any software product, as well as learn techniques for the paradigm of test-driven development. Continuous delivery and its impact on testing will be discussed. We will also discover how innovative companies are able to build testing and quality into every stage of the development process and deliver a multitude of releases with a relatively small testing organization. We will practice test creation and testing techniques through assignments, individual projects, and group projects. Concepts covered include:

test cycles
testing objectives
testing in the software development process
types of software errors
reporting and analyzing software errors
problem tracking systems
test case design
testing tools
test planning
test documentation
managing a test group
test-driven development principles
continuous delivery principles and their impact on testing
CYSC 300 - Information Assurance (4)
In a highly connected, data intensive, and cost-focused business environment, the practice of information security is not a business advantage; it is a customer requirement. Malware and exploits including ransomware, viruses,  trojans, denial of service attacks, phishing, and even Wiki leaks have become headline news. Failure to insure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data costs companies millions, if not billions of dollars in legal settlements, lost business, and trade secrets. In this course, you will get an overview of information security principles and practices, including security models, risk management, access controls, intrusion detection and prevention (IDS/IPS), cryptography, software vulnerabilities, and ethical issues. Subsequent courses expand on this foundational material in much greater depth. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).
CYSC 400 - Application Security (4)
Software vulnerabilities, especially those that compromise personal or financial data, are appallingly common. Nearly every major software company has dealt with the fallout of a major incident due to vulnerabilities in their products. Developing correct - let alone secure - software is very difficult. Yet users and executives expect it. In this course, you will learn about the typical development mistakes that lead to application-level security issues as well as how to defend against each.. Students will explore the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) top 10 security vulnerabilities. Topics include unchecked user input, injection, fuzzing, CSRF, XSS, cryptography, CAPTCHA, configuration errors, authentication, and authorization. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).





				Additional Requirements			




All students are required to pass College Writing (ENG 120), and either Basic Learning Strategies (PF 121) or Learning Strategies (PF 321) prior to enrolling in any course at the 200 level or above. Students who enroll at Franklin with 30 or fewer hours of transfer credit are required to pass PF 121 Basic Learning Strategies in place of PF 321 Learning Strategies. Interpersonal Communication (COMM 150) or Speech Communication (SPCH 100) must be taken prior to enrolling in any course at the 300 level or above. Students must also meet the University algebra competency requirement.











  Academic Minors




Personalize your degree with a minor. Explore available minors, learn how minors can benefit you, and find out what requirements you must meet to earn a minor.Learn More






Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Software Development in Java



STEM Foundations





Learn More







  B.S. in Computer Science Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition$398B.S. in Nursing $298Current service members$250International students$526




See How Franklin Compares
 
67% LESS IN TUITION
For students taking 31 credits per year, Franklin University’s undergraduate tuition for the 2023-2024 academic year is $12,338. According to Collegeboard.org, that's about 67% less than the national average private, nonprofit four-year college tuition of $38,070.
Compare Franklin








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the B.S. Computer Science matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


1. To be awarded an undergraduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all courses required in the major program, including:
General Education
Business or Professional Core
Major Area and Elective Courses
Technical transfer credit (for specific degree completion programs only)

2. Meet these grade point average (GPA) requirements:

All students must attain a minimum Franklin University cumulative GPA of 2.00
All students must attain a minimum GPA of 2.25 in the major area, and each major area course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements

3. Complete the residency requirement

Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 

4. Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees
5. Not be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
Program Chairs and Academic Advisors are available for consultation to provide information and guidance regarding the selection of courses, the accuracy of schedules, and the transfer process. However, students are responsible for understanding and meeting the degree requirements of their major program or degree and for planning schedules accordingly.
Overall Residency Requirements
Students seeking a bachelor’s degree must complete a minimum of 30 credit hours at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. Students seeking an associate’s degree must earn 20 credit hours overall in residence at Franklin University to be eligible for a degree. 
Course Level Requirements
A student must have 40 credit hours overall that are equivalent to 300/400 level Franklin University courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have a minimum of 12 credit hours of courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree.
Business Core Requirements
Majors that have Business Core requirements are Accounting, Applied Management, Business Administration, Business Economics, Business Forensics, Energy Management, Entrepreneurship, Financial Management, Financial Planning, Forensic Accounting, Human Resources Management, Information Systems Auditing, Logistics Management, Management & Leadership, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Risk Management & Insurance. The Business Core is the foundation of the related academic disciplines appropriate for a baccalaureate degree in business. The purpose of the Business Core is to provide students with a conceptual understanding of organizations, how the functional areas interrelate to achieve organizational goals, and how to apply professional decision-making competencies and technical skills in today’s environment. After completing the Business Core, graduates will be able to:

analyze an organization’s accounting information in order to develop sound business decisions
identify and apply valuation models relevant to an organization’s financial decisions
identify the impact of forces influencing the major functional areas of business (e.g., ethical, legal, technological, economic, global and social)
apply marketing activities to the delivery of goods and services in business-to-business and business-to-consumer markets
apply interpersonal and resource management skills to enhance business success

Business Principles (BSAD 110) is a Business Core prerequisite. Transfer students with the equivalent of four business courses are not required to take Business Principles.
Major Area Requirements
A student must have 20 credit hours in the major area that are equivalent to 300/400 major level Franklin courses for a bachelor’s degree. A student must have 12 hours of major area courses that are equivalent to 200 level or above for an associate’s degree. A minimum 2.25 GPA is required in the major area for students enrolled in either the associate’s or bachelor’s degree programs, and each major course must be completed with a grade of “C” or better to count toward degree requirements.
Capstone Requirement
Every major has a capstone experience for which credit cannot be transferred into the University. This is a Franklin course designed to integrate and assess the learning outcomes specific to each major as a whole. This course should be taken as the last major course. If, given the academic scheduling process and the student’s projected graduation date, this is not possible, then the student should have Senior Standing (90 or more credit hours), plus the skill-based General Education courses (COMM, SPCH, WRIT, MATH, COMP), all business or professional core courses, and the capstone prerequisite courses.
Subsequent Degree Requirements
Students pursuing subsequent bachelor’s degrees must earn in residency at Franklin University a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, of which a minimum of 16 credit hours must be major area courses equivalent to 300/400 level courses.
Additional Degree Requirements
Students seeking an additional bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours (including the major requirements) beyond the first bachelor’s (or associate’s) degree. (See the “Subsequent Degree” section of the Academic Bulletin.)
Transfer Credit
Transfer credit and credit awarded on standardized exams, proficiency exams or portfolio credit awarded by another institution will not count toward the residency requirement at Franklin University. Credit awarded based on proficiency examination or portfolio evaluation conducted by Franklin University may apply as appropriate major area credit, but will not reduce the hours required toward the residency requirement.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




A student who meets at least one of the following criteria is eligible for admission as a degree-seeking student: 

Has provided official documentation of graduation from an accredited high school or its equivalent (see Documentation Required below), or 
Has an associate, bachelor or master’s degree from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, an institution recognized as a candidate for accreditation, or an institution recognized by the Council of Higher Education Accreditation

Documentation Required

Documentation of high school graduation or equivalence - required for applicants who are transferring fewer than 60 semester hours that apply towards a Franklin degree. 
If the student has transferable hours of 60 credit hours or more from an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution of higher education, then they will not have to provide a high school diploma or equivalence. Acceptable forms of documentation of high school graduation or high school equivalence for undergraduate admission must include one of the following: 


Official high school transcript listing the date of graduation 
Official GED certificate 
Official documentation of having passed a State High School Equivalency examination 
Official documentation of a home school completion certificate/transcript 
Official transcripts from all educational institutions (college, universities, professional schools, etc.) previously enrolled in, regardless if credit was earned. 

A student classified as degree seeking will not be permitted to register for courses until all transcripts are received and placement tests completed (see specific requirements under “Placement Testing”).
Admission Process
Admission procedures should be started early to maximize scheduling options and financial planning. Learn more about the undergraduate admission process.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following: 

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language. 
he applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English. 
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed below.

Undergraduate face-to-face: Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 500 (paper-based), 60 (Internet-based), 5.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL 259, or Cambridge 160 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections. Prior to registration, students will be given a language placement exam to determine whether ESL studies are required.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
15/30
5.5
85
160


Writing
15/30
5.5
4
160


Listening
15/30
5.5
85
160


Speaking
15/30
5.5
n/a
160


Sentence Meaning
n/a
n/a
85
n/a




Global or Online International students must take Reading Comprehension and Writing placement exams. 
Students must earn a minimum overall TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based) /79 (Internet-based), 6.5 IELTS, ACCUPLACER ESL® 105, or Cambridge 180 with at least the following scores on each of the exam subsections.



 
TOEFL
IELTS
ACCUPLACER
Cambridge English Scale


Reading
20/30
6.5
00
180


Writing
20/30
6.5
5
180




ACCUPLACER Assessments for Admission

Prospective students may demonstrate English language proficiency through the ACCUPLACER ESL® examinations administered by Franklin University. The ACCUPLACER ESL® suite of examinations are internet-based, computer-adaptive assessments designed to properly assess students’ English language competencies. 
Testing fees and any related administrative or proctor fee will be assessed for the administration of the 
ACCUPLACER examinations. Students are also responsible for all fees incurred for retake examinations. 
Students who do not meet the minimum score requirements may retake the examination(s) once within a two-week period. Subsequent examination retakes will be considered after a three month waiting period. Passing scores will remain valid with Franklin University for a period of two years. 
All ACCUPLACER examinations must be administered by an approved proctor that meets specific criteria, as defined by our proctor expectations. An alternative to finding a proctor in your area is Virtual, an online proctoring service, approved by ACCUPLACER. For additional information, contact the Office of International Students and Programs.







Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Herbert Berger
Cardinal Health Inc.
Enterprise Architect


David Blum
Hylant
Chief Info. + Innovation Officer


Gary Clark
Columbus State Community College
Principal Investigator, Asst. Prof.


Sean Erikson
Grange Insurance Companies
VP, Architecture + IT Strategy


Mihajlo Jovanovic
 JP Morgan Chase
Lead Software Engineer


Perumal Ramasamy
NetJets
VP, Data + Quality Programs


Srini Ramaswamy
Battelle
Head of Technology


Gloria Rogiers
Columbus State Community College
Dean


Paul Varner
Nationwide
Consulting IT Architect


David Vasquez
Nationwide Insurance
Director, IT Applications


Bradley West
HMB Inc.
Dir., Project Mgmt. Practice


Byron White
Chemical Abstracts Service
Software Development Manager











Request Free Information!Want to learn more about Franklin University? Complete the simple form - it just takes a minute!Invest in yourself by finishing your degree.Take advantage of flexible courses that fit your busy schedule.Finish faster. Save more. Franklin fits your life.Get in-demand knowledge that helps Franklin grads stand out with top employers.Request InformationWhat type of program are you seeking?-- Select Program Type --AssociateBachelor'sCombined Bachelor's & Master'sMaster'sCertificateDoctorateNon-Degree SeekingPost BaccalaureateCollege Credit Plus/Pre-College (HS Student)What is your program of interest?-- Select Program --Microcredential-- Select Microcredential --SpecializationNoneDo you have an associate degree or diploma in nursing?-- Select Status --YesNoNursing License Status-- Select Status --I have a current RN licenseMy license is pendingMy license is suspended or expiredI do not have an RN license
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required for this program.  Please resolve the issue with your license and return to inquire at that time.  In the interim, we welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required to enter this program.  We welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			When would you like to start classes?What is your highest level of education?-- Select Highest Education --Currently pursuing a high school diploma or GEDHave a high school diploma or GEDHave or currently pursuing Associate'sCurrently pursuing Bachelor's at an institution other than FranklinHave Bachelor'sHave or currently pursuing Master'sHave or currently pursuing DoctorateWhere did you receive (or are currently pursuing) your Associate's Degree?-- Select Country --My country is not listed"
								AlbaniaAlgeriaAnguillaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBermudaBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBulgariaBurkina FasoCameroonCanadaChinaColombiaCongoCroatiaCubaCuracaoDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEnglandEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFranceGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGrenadaGuatemalaGuinea, West AfricaGuyanaHaitiHungaryIndiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJordanKenyaKyrgyzstanLebanonLesothoLiberiaLithuaniaLuxembourgMacedoniaMalawiMalaysiaMaltaMauritaniaMexicoMoldovaMongoliaMontserratNamibia, AfricaNepalNetherlandsNew ZealandNigeriaNorwayOmanPakistanPalestinePanamaPeruPhilippinesPolandPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSingaporeSlovakiaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaSpainSt. LuciaSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TanzaniaThailandTogoTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurks and Caicos IslandsUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUzbekistanVenezuelaVietnamYemenZambiaZimbabwe-- Select State ---- Select City ---- Select Institution --First NameLast NamePrimary EmailPrimary PhoneSelect the state where you live-- Select State --AlabamaAlaskaAmerican SamoaArizonaArkansasArmed Forces AmericaCaliforniaColoradoConnecticutDelawareDistrict Of ColumbiaFederated States of MicronesiaFloridaGeorgiaGuamHawaiiIdahoIllinoisIndianaIowaKansasKentuckyLouisianaMaineMarshall IslandsMarylandMassachusettsMichiganMinnesotaMississippiMissouriMontanaNebraskaNevadaNew HampshireNew JerseyNew MexicoNew YorkNorth CarolinaNorth DakotaNorthern Mariana IslandsOhioOklahomaOregonPalauPennsylvaniaPuerto RicoRhode IslandSouth CarolinaSouth DakotaTennesseeTexasUtahVermontVirgin IslandsVirginiaWashingtonWest VirginiaWisconsinWyomingZip CodeI do not live in the U.S.Where is your country of citizenship?-- Select Country --AfghanistanAland IslandsAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAmerican Samoa(Western Samoa)American Virgin IslandsAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntarticaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAshmore and Cartier IslandsAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBamakoBandungBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBouvet IslandBrazilBritish Indian Ocean TerritoryBritish Virgin IslandsBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurmaBurundiCambodiaCameroonCanadaCape VerdeCayman IslandsCentral African RepublicChadChileChinaChristmas IslandCocos (Keeling) IslandsColombiaComorosCongoCook IslandsCosta RicaCote D'Ivoire (Ivory Coast)CroatiaCubaCuracaoCzech RepublicDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDjibouti - RddDominicaDominican RepublicEast TimorEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEnglandEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFiji IslandsFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaFrench Southern TerritoriesGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreat BritainGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuamGuatemalaGuernseyGuinea, West AfricaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHaitiHeard and McDonald IslandsHerzegovinaHoly See (Vatican City)HondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsle of ManIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKuwaitKyrgyzstanLaosLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMontserratMoroccoMozambiqueMyanmar (Burma)Namibia, AfricaNauruNavassa IslandNepalNetherlandsNetherlands AntillesNew CaledoniaNew Guinea (Papua New Guinea)New ZealandNicaraguaNigerNigeriaNiueNorfolk IslandNorth KoreaNorthern IrelandNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalau, W Caroline IslandsPalestinePanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPersiaPeruPhilippinesPitcairnPolandPortugalPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRepublic of MoldovaReunionRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint BarthelemySaint HelenaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint MartinSaint Pierre and MiquelonSaint Vincent and GrenadinesSan MarinoSao Tome and PrincipeSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth AmericaSouth KoreaSouth SudanSoviet UnionSpainSri LankaSt. KittsSt. LuciaSt. MaartenSt. Thomas, V.I.SudanSurinameSvalbard and Jan MayenSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoToklauTongaTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamWales U.K.Wallis and FutunaWest AfricaWest IndiesWestern SaharaYemenYugoslaviaZaire(Democratic Rep of CongoZambiaZimbabweAre you serving in the U.S. military, a veteran, or a spouse or dependent of a servicemember?YesNoImmigration StatusI am a U.S. immigrant, such as a Permanent Resident, Asylee, Refugee, or undocumented immigrantI am a non-immigrant to the U.S., such as an F-1 Student, H-1B Worker, H-4 Dependent, J-1 Visitor, or B-1/B-2 TouristI plan to come to the U.S. as an international studentI plan to study online from outside the U.S. 
				Step 1 of 3Get Started >< BackNext >Submit
				In submitting my contact information, I understand that I will receive phone calls, text messages and email about attending Franklin University. I may opt out of these communications at any time.
				
				Your privacy is important to us. Privacy PolicyLoading...We're SorryThere was an unexpected error with the form (your web browser was unable to retrieve some required data from our servers).  This kind of error may occur if you have temporarily lost your internet connection.  If you're able to verify that your internet connection is stable and the error persists, the Franklin University Help Desk is available to assist you at helpdesk@franklin.edu, 614.947.6682 (local), or 1.866.435.7006 (toll free).Just a moment while we process your submission.







Employment Outlook





14%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Computer Science are expected to increase by 14%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Computer and Information Systems Managers
$169,520
18,129
20%




Computer and Information Systems Managers
									Median Salary: $169,520

									Job Postings: 18,129

									Projected Growth: 20%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer and Information Systems Managers plan, direct, or coordinate activities in such fields as electronic data processing, information systems, systems analysis, and computer programming. Excludes Computer Occupations (15-1211 through 15-1299).Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsIT Directors4,94727%Directors of Information Technology3,92922%Chief Information Officers1,5028%Chief Technology Officers1,2227%Chief Information Security Officers1,1877%Directors of IT Infrastructure5523%Digital Transformation Directors5673%Directors of IT Operations5213%Vice Presidents of Software Engineering6183%IT Associate Directors5573%Directors of IT Security3102%Directors of Infrastructure3222%Directors of Technology Solutions3612%Directors of IT Infrastructure and Operations2411%Directors of Technology4082%Directors of Network Development1661%Deputy Chief Information Officers1871%Chief Data Officers2171%ITSM Managers1291%Infrastructure Managers1861%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsComputer Science8,14533%Project Management7,45030%Information Systems4,06616%Cyber Security3,45314%Auditing3,32313%Agile Methodology3,22613%IT Infrastructure3,11813%IT Service Management2,90512%Finance2,81911%Business Process2,62911%Information Technology Operations2,52910%Change Management2,50510%Software Development2,36210%Microsoft Azure2,3269%Technology Solutions2,3019%Automation2,2959%Continuous Improvement Process2,2949%Risk Management2,1869%Information Technology Infrastructure Library2,1489%Technical Support2,1439%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services21%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Software Publishers5%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services4%Insurance Carriers3%Other53% 
Computer and Information Research Scientists
$145,080
8,719
26%




Computer and Information Research Scientists
									Median Salary: $145,080

									Job Postings: 8,719

									Projected Growth: 26%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer and Information Research Scientists conduct research into fundamental computer and information science as theorists, designers, or inventors. Develop solutions to problems in the field of computer hardware and software.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsComputer Scientists3,41839%Computational Scientists1,16713%Research Computer Scientists99011%Scientists7419%Principal Scientists5516%Cryptologists3204%NLP Engineers2153%Applied Scientists2253%Applications Scientists2733%Associate Scientists1312%Staff Scientists1532%Transformation Analysts521%Applied Researchers611%Postdoctoral Research Associates441%Digital Solutions Directors601%Computer Scientists/Software Engineers991%Modeling Analysts360%Artificial Intelligence Consultants631%Artificial Intelligence Engineers511%Speech Language Pathologists691%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsComputer Science3,58754%Python (Programming Language)2,50338%Machine Learning2,41537%Artificial Intelligence1,98230%Statistics1,51323%Algorithms1,44122%Software Engineering1,32520%C++ (Programming Language)1,23119%Computer Engineering1,13617%Data Science1,09717%Software Development1,05416%R (Programming Language)1,02616%Data Analysis97615%Natural Language Processing (NLP)94514%Java (Programming Language)90614%Physics87813%Systems Design83813%Programming Languages82513%Deep Learning81512%Project Management81312%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian32%Computer Systems Design and Related Services21%Scientific Research and Development Services15%Software Publishers8%Education and Hospitals (State Government)7%Web Search Portals, Libraries, Archives, and Other Information Services3%Other15% 
Computer Network Architects
$129,834
105,281
8%




Computer Network Architects
									Median Salary: $129,834

									Job Postings: 105,281

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Network Architects design and implement computer and information networks, such as local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), intranets, extranets, and other data communications networks. Perform network modeling, analysis, and planning, including analysis of capacity needs for network infrastructures. May also design network and computer security measures. May research and recommend network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsNetwork Engineers50,59048%Automation Engineers12,00911%Network Architects5,5665%Network Analysts3,8294%Network Systems Engineers2,8663%Automation Controls Engineers3,0173%Controls Engineers3,6093%Telecommunications Engineers2,9813%Network Specialists2,3792%Cloud Network Engineers2,0382%Principal Network Engineers3,0743%Lead Network Engineers2,0152%Core Network Engineers2,1612%Wireless Network Engineers1,7082%Cisco Network Engineers1,4091%VMware Engineers1,2151%Network Software Engineers1,4371%Storage Engineers1,1841%Network Security Engineers1,1911%Network Automation Engineers1,0031%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNetwork Engineering41,61634%Network Routing35,89930%Automation32,99627%Computer Science30,76725%Firewall30,42125%Network Switches26,37722%Wide Area Networks23,23619%Local Area Networks21,17518%Systems Engineering20,59817%Project Management19,07216%Network Infrastructure18,03315%Border Gateway Protocol17,77815%Python (Programming Language)17,44114%Virtual Private Networks (VPN)16,40914%Network Security16,14613%Networking Hardware16,05113%Operating Systems15,45713%Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)15,24413%Scripting14,86512%Telecommunications14,31912%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services25%Wired and Wireless Telecommunications (except Satellite)12%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Employment Services4%Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other43% 
Information Security Analysts
$120,370
63,767
31%




Information Security Analysts
									Median Salary: $120,370

									Job Postings: 63,767

									Projected Growth: 31%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionInformation Security Analysts plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information. Assess system vulnerabilities for security risks and propose and implement risk mitigation strategies. May ensure appropriate security controls are in place that will safeguard digital files and vital electronic infrastructure. May respond to computer security breaches and viruses. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsCybersecurity Analysts10,49717%Information Security Analysts9,45915%Information Systems Security Officers12,36219%IT Auditors4,6727%Cybersecurity Specialists4,1477%Auditors5,0388%IT Security Analysts1,7513%Information Security Specialists2,0433%Security Analysts1,4052%Subject Matter Experts1,8033%Incident Response Analysts1,3032%Security Specialists1,4622%Incident Managers9332%Information Security Officers1,1032%Security Operations Center Analysts1,0622%Incident Response Managers9342%Cyber Defense Analysts9241%Security Operations Analysts1,0472%Cyber Threat Hunters7851%Audit Supervisors1,0372%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsCyber Security26,55049%Auditing20,50838%Vulnerability16,55930%Computer Science14,76027%Incident Response14,05826%Information Systems12,31623%Risk Analysis12,08022%Security Controls9,55618%Risk Management9,20117%IT Security8,74716%Firewall8,41115%Security Information And Event Management (SIEM)7,96915%Operating Systems7,96315%Cyber Threat Intelligence7,33713%Project Management6,86313%Linux6,66612%Information Assurance6,55812%Information Systems Security5,96211%Network Security5,91911%Security Requirements Analysis5,46310%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services22%Management of Companies and Enterprises8%Depository Credit Intermediation6%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services6%Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services6%Scientific Research and Development Services4%Other48% 
Statisticians
$104,104
18,840
30%




Statisticians
									Median Salary: $104,104

									Job Postings: 18,840

									Projected Growth: 30%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionStatisticians develop or apply mathematical or statistical theory and methods to collect, organize, interpret, and summarize numerical data to provide usable information. May specialize in fields such as biostatistics, agricultural statistics, business statistics, or economic statistics. Includes mathematical and survey statisticians. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBiostatisticians5,45629%Directors of Biostatistics2,29012%Statisticians1,93510%Biostatistics Managers2,34412%Principal Biostatisticians1,0636%Statistical Analysts8525%Statisticians/Data Scientists6103%Statistical Programming Managers7184%Research Statisticians4753%Mathematical Statisticians4272%Statistical Data Analysts3702%Biometricians3112%Principals2641%Survey Statisticians2721%Statistical Research Analysts2631%Statistical Scientists2211%Research Biostatisticians2591%Statistical Programmers2351%Statistical Programming Analysts3042%Directors of Statistics1711%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsStatistics10,07080%SAS (Software)6,67953%Biostatistics6,62152%Statistical Analysis6,17249%R (Programming Language)5,31242%Clinical Trials5,11641%Data Analysis4,66937%Statistical Methods3,75630%Statistical Programming2,97624%Pharmaceuticals2,91923%Data Management2,67121%Clinical Study Design2,47420%Python (Programming Language)2,40119%Data Science2,38819%Statistical Software2,28018%Project Management2,20217%Pre-Clinical Development2,10217%Data Collection1,89115%Computer Science1,79414%Drug Development1,73914%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Civilian19%Scientific Research and Development Services17%Education and Hospitals (State Government)7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals7%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools6%Computer Systems Design and Related Services6%Other38% 
Computer Systems Analysts
$103,792
100,703
14%




Computer Systems Analysts
									Median Salary: $103,792

									Job Postings: 100,703

									Projected Growth: 14%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Systems Analysts analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to develop and implement solutions to complex applications problems, system administration issues, or network concerns. Perform systems management and integration functions, improve existing computer systems, and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and schedule limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Systems Analysts30,87931%Systems Analysts19,86520%Technical Business Analysts5,6336%Technical Analysts4,2874%Configuration Analysts5,1075%IT Analysts3,2403%Healthcare Data Analysts2,5163%IT Systems Analysts2,4352%Utilization Review Nurses2,9023%SAP Solution Architects1,9142%IT Business Systems Analysts2,2842%Applications Systems Analysts2,6123%Computer Systems Analysts2,8693%Configuration Management Analysts2,4803%Information Systems Analysts2,3812%Systems Support Analysts1,9082%Configuration Management Specialists2,4422%Utilization Management Managers1,9502%Healthcare Analysts1,2841%Configuration Specialists1,7152%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsSystems Analysis28,29622%Project Management28,07522%Computer Science27,47421%SQL (Programming Language)24,88319%Workflow Management21,66917%Business Requirements21,51317%Business Process20,98916%Business Systems Analysis20,48716%Data Analysis18,90715%Agile Methodology17,67114%Auditing17,60314%Information Systems15,35812%Process Improvement12,76810%Technical Support11,6599%Automation11,0739%Finance10,5518%Change Management9,2957%Business Systems9,1027%Medical Records9,0067%Business Analysis8,6937%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services23%Management of Companies and Enterprises11%Insurance Carriers5%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals4%Depository Credit Intermediation4%Employment Services4%Other51% 
Computer Programmers
$99,715
36,884
-4%




Computer Programmers
									Median Salary: $99,715

									Job Postings: 36,884

									Projected Growth: -4%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Programmers create, modify, and test the code and scripts that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software and web developers or other individuals. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsProgrammer Analysts11,25531%Program Analysts4,59513%Programmers5,75416%Statistical Programmers2,5527%Systems Programmers1,3094%SAS Programmers9493%Computer Programmers1,2563%SAS Developers7232%Business Analysts/Programmers8992%Software Programmers7282%Management and Program Analysts7092%GIS Program Managers1,2543%RPG Programmers5041%Scientific Programmers5932%IT Programmer Analysts7792%Programmers/Developers4621%Automation Programmers1,0483%Robot Programmers6952%Scientific Program Analysts3911%Cobol Programmers4291%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsComputer Science9,63028%SQL (Programming Language)8,53925%Project Management5,45216%Debugging4,40713%Python (Programming Language)4,39013%SAS (Software)4,30013%JavaScript (Programming Language)4,08612%Java (Programming Language)3,79711%C# (Programming Language)3,67911%Data Analysis3,51310%Software Development3,50010%Automation3,0969%Programming Languages2,9959%Statistics2,9569%Agile Methodology2,9489%Workflow Management2,8298%Information Systems2,7118%C++ (Programming Language)2,6738%Application Programming Interface (API)2,6678%HyperText Markup Language (HTML)2,5568%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services33%Education and Hospitals (State Government)7%Software Publishers6%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Scientific Research and Development Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises4%Other42% 
Network and Computer Systems Administrators
$95,347
102,148
8%




Network and Computer Systems Administrators
									Median Salary: $95,347

									Job Postings: 102,148

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators install, configure, and maintain an organization’s local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), data communications network, operating systems, and physical and virtual servers. Perform system monitoring and verify the integrity and availability of hardware, network, and server resources and systems. Review system and application logs and verify completion of scheduled jobs, including system backups. Analyze network and server resource consumption and control user access. Install and upgrade software and maintain software licenses. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSystems Administrators39,81139%Network Administrators13,74014%Linux System Administrators7,9068%Windows Administrators5,5305%Linux Administrators3,9144%IT Systems Administrators4,2764%Linux Engineers3,1153%Sharepoint Administrators3,1073%IT Administrators3,2683%Linux Systems Engineers2,2382%Windows Server System Administrators2,2662%Network Systems Administrators2,4732%Computer Operators2,1212%Application Administrators1,5172%Administrators1,4711%Servicenow Administrators9091%Server Administrators1,3201%Cloud Systems Administrators1,0381%Netsuite Administrators1,0291%Unix Administrators1,0991%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperating Systems29,29232%Linux28,68231%System Administration23,75026%Computer Science23,50625%Active Directory21,48723%Scripting19,01721%Windows Servers17,23619%Automation16,48718%Firewall13,81515%Network Administration12,87914%Windows PowerShell12,14513%Microsoft Azure11,98013%Technical Support11,71013%Python (Programming Language)11,59613%Backup Devices11,58712%Network Routing11,22312%Unix10,39011%Network Switches10,26011%SQL (Programming Language)9,78511%Local Area Networks9,73710%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services16%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)4%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other61% 
Computer Network Support Specialists
$71,531
17,149
12%




Computer Network Support Specialists
									Median Salary: $71,531

									Job Postings: 17,149

									Projected Growth: 12%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer Network Support Specialists analyze, test, troubleshoot, and evaluate existing network systems, such as local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), cloud networks, servers, and other data communications networks. Perform network maintenance to ensure networks operate correctly with minimal interruption. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsNetwork Technicians6,72739%NOC Technicians1,75710%Network Support Technicians1,1357%Network Operations Technicians9576%Network Operations Center Technicians8635%IT Technicians4152%Operations Technicians5453%Technicians5533%Installation Technicians5253%LAN Technicians3682%Service Consultants4833%Computer Network Technicians3762%IT Network Technicians3082%Support Technicians2361%PC Network Support Technicians5083%Network Field Technicians2782%Lead Network Technicians4343%VoIP Technicians2041%Networking Technicians2231%Service Technicians2542%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNetwork Routing2,86525%Network Switches2,84624%Telecommunications2,38621%Local Area Networks2,12018%Computer Networks2,05818%Networking Hardware1,99317%Wide Area Networks1,66314%Operating Systems1,47113%Technical Support1,44512%Network Troubleshooting1,35512%Computer Science1,28711%Firewall1,21210%Network Infrastructure1,16110%Network Support1,15210%Help Desk Support1,0609%TCP/IP1,0219%Peripheral Devices9088%Network Monitoring9018%Issue Tracking8667%Active Directory8577%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services20%Wired and Wireless Telecommunications (except Satellite)8%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)7%Management of Companies and Enterprises6%Education and Hospitals (State Government)5%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Other50% 
Computer User Support Specialists
$59,238
211,675
11%




Computer User Support Specialists
									Median Salary: $59,238

									Job Postings: 211,675

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer User Support Specialists provide technical assistance to computer users. Answer questions or resolve computer problems for clients in person, via telephone, or electronically. May provide assistance concerning the use of computer hardware and software, including printing, installation, word processing, electronic mail, and operating systems. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsIT Specialists25,04212%Desktop Support Technicians20,44510%IT Support Specialists16,9818%Help Desk Technicians18,8929%Help Desk Analysts15,4867%Technical Support Specialists15,3287%IT Support Technicians13,4116%Help Desk Specialists11,5706%Technical Support Engineers7,4984%Service Desk Analysts7,9114%Desktop Support Managers6,2513%Service Desk Technicians7,5254%IT Help Desk Technicians7,1383%Technical Support Analysts6,3533%IT Technicians6,0053%Computer Technicians6,1473%Desktop Support Analysts4,7042%IT Support Analysts5,0582%Application Support Analysts4,8812%Desktop Support Specialists5,0492%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsTechnical Support84,19531%Help Desk Support79,70029%Operating Systems60,62222%Active Directory47,41817%Computer Science46,49317%Peripheral Devices38,42914%Computer Hardware38,36614%Desktop Support35,95813%Issue Tracking31,90112%Microsoft Office 36527,51510%Project Management25,6189%Microsoft Windows 1024,9889%Customer Support24,2479%ServiceNow23,2738%Local Area Networks21,8548%Information Systems19,3437%Virtual Private Networks (VPN)18,5007%IT Service Management18,3367%Network Troubleshooting18,0847%End-User Training And Support17,1266%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services22%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)6%Employment Services5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Software Publishers4%Other55% 

Show More

Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Computer Science Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Object-Oriented Design

			



Capture and interpret requirements to build and deliver highly functional, robust, and scalable applications
Apply formal, best practice methodologies and notations in the preparation of requirements, including user stories, use cases models, feature requirements, activity diagrams, domain models, Unified Modeling Language (UML), supplemental and data requirements, concept diagrams, and business rules
Prepare detailed specifications for the development and coding of programs and applications based on established requirements
Apply design patterns using best practice software design techniques such as abstraction, inheritance, polymorphism, and encapsulation to create reusable, object-oriented software
Provide technical leadership and support in the design, development, and deployment of software, mobile applications, and frameworks
Design software for hardware architectures, including understanding current and planned hardware functionality, and system and document specifications







			
  Computer Architecture

			



Architect whole-system software solutions, optimizing hardware and software performance based on a solid understanding of core, cache, memory models, bus architecture, and hardware blocks, as well as performance of CPU, GPU, bus, and memory bandwidth usage
Design, specify, and verify complex processor-based subsystems and test-plan the system
Provide system-level validation using high-level verification language
Identify, resolve, and document architectural performance issues
	 







			
  Coding & Testing

			



Define processing logic and translate business requirements into code
Write and test solid, reliable, efficient code for highly scalable systems
Develop full lifecycle software applications, coding in highly sought-after programming languages such as Java
Apply cutting-edge enterprise Java technologies
Write programs using structured programming techniques, standard languages, and third-party packages
Solve real-world problems using appropriate data structures, algorithms, and design patterns
	 







			
  Web Application Development

			



Develop sophisticated back-end web applications using JSP and Java Servlets
Create interoperable applications, leveraging web architectures such as REST and SOAP
Apply asynchronous web development techniques, such as AJAX, to create scalable web applications
Design clean web applications using three-tiered architecture to separate presentation, logic, and data layers







			
  Database Management

			



Analyze business problems and model the database solution using entity relationship diagrams
Apply SQL commands to create, update, delete, and query a relational database
Design and build a database to support an application
Analyze business and database structures and demonstrate data warehousing techniques
Describe and apply Internet Database concepts and tools, such as XML
Apply the process of normalization to remove data anomalies
	 







			
  Quality Assurance

			



Ensure that software meets design specifications and performance standards
Create detailed test cases, test plans, and test scripts to debug applications
Identify logic and syntax errors using compiler messages, breakpoints, watches, and stepping in a debugger
Perform functional, unit, and integration tests
	 









  Get Credit For Certifications + Training




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.














  Computer Science Bachelor's Frequently Asked Questions






		How long does it take to get a Computer Science degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Computer Science degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Computer Science degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Computer Science degree?
		




The bachelor of science in Computer Science degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Computer Science degree program is designed to give you a strong foundation in software engineering and software systems development. At Franklin, you can become a highly trained computer professional with a foundational understanding in important aspects of the field, including programming, algorithm development, software architecture, computing systems infrastructure, operating systems and networks.




		What can you do with a Computer Science degree?
		




With a B.S. Computer Science from Franklin, you'll possess sound theoretical background as well as practical hands-on experience to prepare you for a wide variety of technical positions, such as systems programmer, systems analyst, software engineer, database administrator and software architect. And, if you wish to pursue an advanced degree, your bachelor's degree will help prepare you for admission to graduate school.




		Why get a Computer Science degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Computer Science degree from Franklin, you'll possess the fundamental skills and knowledge required for a high-demand career in a growing field. And because our degree program is designed to accommodate busy, working adults, you can earn your degree while you work.




		What makes Franklin’s Computer Science degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Computer Science degree program can help you develop critical, high-level technical skills and knowledge, including basic and advanced software design, multi-tier enterprise application development, software architecture and large-scale software systems maintenance. In addition to providing a solid foundation of programming expertise, our computer science curriculum prepares you to assume significant responsibility within an IT organization.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Is a Public Health Degree Worth It?



What Can You Do With a Data Science Degree?



Top 8 Benefits of a Bachelor’s Degree



What Are the Highest Paying Jobs With a Bachelor’s Degree?



How to Become a Teacher Without an Education Degree






  Related Programs




B.S. Cybersecurity
B.S. Information Systems
B.S. Information Technology
B.S. Interactive Media Design




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog