URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/computer-science/data-analytics
Online M.S. in Computer Science Data Analytics Focus | Franklin.edu



















M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus
 

  

36Credit Hours20Month CompletionClass TypeFace-to-face, Online courseworkSee state availabilityNext Start Date
            Jan 27, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Sep 7, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              Computer Science
                /  
                                              M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus
                          

  Tailor your M.S. in computer science with a focus in data analytics


Data in its raw form is an asset, but with the help of skilled data professionals, it’s a powerful tool that fuels strategic decision making. With Franklin’s 100% online M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll be equipped to combine computer science and data modeling to uncover new opportunities for your organization. By combining applied data analytics skills with the core principles of Franklin’s industry-aligned master’s-level computer science program, the data analytics focus prepares you to excel in specialized roles.








  Finish Fast
Finish your master's in as few as 20 months.



  Leading Architectural Tools 
Get hands-on experience with R, Tableau and Python.



  Customizable Program
Tailor your master's degree program to your interests.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced technology leaders.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.



  Game-Changing Skills
Play an important role in communicating emerging technologies to stakeholders.










  M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus Overview





  Boost your knowledge of machine learning techniques

As part of your M.S. in Computer Science-Data Analytics, you’ll earn a Data & Machine Learning Engineering digital badge that demonstrates your understanding of machine learning techniques like linear and logistic regression, probabilistic inference and Support Vector Machines. You’ll also have foundational knowledge in algorithm analysis, data modeling, database design, implementation, optimization and queries. You’ll learn techniques to collect, prepare and analyze data to create visualizations, dashboards and stories to communicate business insights.Get hands-on experience with industry-standard data softwareIn an evolving field like data analytics, relevant skills matter more than ever. You’ll get an overview of current data analytics methods, concepts and current practices. You’ll be able to employ data mining principles to identify patterns in data. You’ll learn how to apply inferential statistical analysis methods, including t-tests and ANOVA to make decisions. Assignments will provide opportunities to use R, Tableau, Python, SAS or SPSS to conduct analysis and interpret results. Read more >



Dimitri V.
M.S. Computer Science '22
"My professors taught me many valuable topics including applications of AI, testing, software architecture as well as industry best practices and insights. My classmates also helped me to learn and put the knowledge to use, and as a result, my experience at Franklin has shaped a complete perspective of the field of Computer Science for me." 







  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January27Recommended Register By: Jan 17 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Fall 2026September7Recommended Register By: Aug 28 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 









  Your Best Value M.S. Computer Science




Choose Franklin's M.S. Computer Science and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates for the M.S. in Computer Science provide value and quality.






Finish Fast


14
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner and reap the benefits.






Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$24,120
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


**Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×








  M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus Curriculum




				36 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




COMP 611 - Advanced Data Structures and Programming (4)
This course covers key knowledge and skills for advanced software development using the object-oriented approach. The student learns, manipulates and reflects on nonlinear data structures such as trees and heaps. Recursive algorithms, sorting algorithms, algorithm efficiency, and advanced design patterns are addressed. To support the advanced concepts and principles of software development, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs with increased scale and complexity using industry's best practices (such as GitHub) and the Java programming language.


COMP 620 - Analysis of Algorithms (4)
This course covers various algorithm design paradigms, mathematical analysis of algorithms, empirical analysis of algorithms and NP-completeness.


COMP 630 - Issues in Database Management (4)
This course focuses on the fundamental design considerations in designing a database. Specific topics include performance analysis of design alternatives, system configuration and the administration of a popular database system. The course also offers an in-depth analysis of the algorithms and machine organizations of database systems. Note, this course has proctored exam(s). This exams requires additional technology, if student uses online proctoring.


COMP 655 - Distributed Systems (4)
This course provides a comprehensive understanding of distributed systems, encompassing both fundamental concepts and practical skills for building modern distributed applications. The course will explore the architecture, design goals, and challenges of distributed systems, covering core principles like processes, transparency, communication, consistency, fault tolerance, and security. Throughout the course, students will gain hands-on experience through labs and a team project, where they will design, develop, containerize and deploy a microservice-based cloud native application using industry-standard tools and technologies.
Through this course, students will gain in-depth understanding of core concepts of distributed computing, including study of both abstract concepts and practical techniques for building modern distributed applications.



COMP 671 - Verification and Testing (4)
This course focuses on the issues of delivering high-quality software, especially in large complex systems. Topics covered include testing strategies (black box, white box, regression, etc.), unit testing, system integration, system verification and support tools. It also will reinforce the need for requirements that are testable and traceable from the early design stages.


COMP 691 - Capstone (4)
This course, the final one in the Master of Science - Computer Science program, challenges students to research a current topic of interest in Computer Science and produce an original paper and presentation on the topic. In addition to the research paper, students are introduced to the economics of software development and the tools needed to estimate the cost of a software development project for management in a corporate environment. The last topic in the course is a discussion of ethics as it relates to Information Technology. Current topics in ethics will be discussed through the use of relevant case studies.





				Major Electives			




At least 12 credits from the following courses:
MATH 601 - Introduction to Analytics  (4)
This course provides an introductory overview of methods, concepts, and current practices in the growing field of statistics and data analytics. Topics to be covered include data collection, data analysis and visualization as well as probability, statistical inference and regression methods for informed decision-making. Students will explore these topics with current statistical software. Some emphasis will also be given to ethical principles of data analytics.
DATA 605 - Data Visualization & Reporting  (4)
This course focuses on collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to create visualizations, dashboards, and stories that can be used to communicate critical business insights. Students will learn how to structure and streamline data analysis projects and highlight their implications efficiently using the most popular visualization tools used by businesses today.
DATA 611 - Applied Machine Learning  (4)
This course explores two main areas of machine learning: supervised and unsupervised. Topics include the fundamental concepts, roadmap of a machine learning project, classification algorithms, regression algorithms, dimensionality reduction, model evaluation, natural language processing, neural networks and deep learning, typical issues in real-world machine learning problems, and Python programming in data science.
COMP 645 - Object-Oriented Design & Practice  (4)
This course surveys current practices in software development and software design, especially in the area of object-oriented design. The course will examine and contrast current and leading edge methodologies and practices, including agile, extreme programming, test-driven design, patterns, aspect-oriented programming, model-driven architecture, Unified Modeling Language, and integrated development environments.
COMP 650 - System Architecture & Engineering  (4)
This course covers topics in software systems engineering. Its scope is the design of the overall architecture for software systems with emphasis on distributed architectures. The issues in an architecture centered software development cycle and project management are addressed.
COMP 670 - Application of Artificial Intelligence  (4)
This course is an introduction to Artificial Intelligence (AI) from an applied perspective. After an introduction of some basic concepts and techniques (such as searching and knowledge representation), the course illustrates both the theoretical foundation and application of these techniques with examples from a variety of problems.

The course surveys a wide range of active areas in AI such as machine learning, artificial neural networks, evolutionary computing, robotics, intelligent agents and bio-inspired AI approaches. It strikes a balance between engineering approaches and theory.

Exercises include hands-on application of basic AI techniques as well as selection of appropriate technologies for a given problem. The principal topics in the selected areas are also coupled with projects where groups of students will participate in the creation of AI-based applications.
COMP 610 - Internship in Computer Science  (1-4)
This course provides MSCS students the opportunity to further their education with relevant work experience in the field of Computer Science. This internship is an ongoing seminar between the student, faculty and the employment supervisor. It involves a Learning Contract (Curricular Practical Training [CPT] Information, or other), periodic meetings with the faculty representative, and professional experience at a level equivalent to other electives of the MSCS program. Specification of the materials to be submitted is established in the learning contract. Participation cannot be guaranteed for all applicants.
COMP 699 - Independent Studies in Graduate Computer Science  (1-4)
Independent studies courses allow students in good academic standing to pursue learning in areas not covered by the regular curriculum or to extend study in areas presently taught. Study is under faculty supervision and graded on Pass/No Credit basis. For international students, curricular practiced training may be used as an independent study with approval of program chair. (See the "Independent Studies" section of the Academic Bulletin for more details.)
CYSC 610 - Information Assurance  (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of security in the enterprise environment. Included are coverage of risks and vulnerabilities, threat modeling, policy formation, controls and protection methods, encryption and authentication technologies, network security, cryptography, personnel and physical security issues, as well as ethical and legal issues. This foundational course serves as an introduction to many of the subsequent topics discussed in depth in later security courses. Note, this course has proctored exam(s). This exam requires additional technology, if student uses online proctoring.
CYSC 620 - Software and App Security  (4)
Today, software is at the heart of the business processes of nearly every business from finance to manufacturing.  Software pervades everyday life in expected places like phones and computers but also in places that you may not consider such as toasters, thermostats, automobiles, and even light bulbs. Security flaws in software can have impacts ranging from inconvenient to damaging and even catastrophic when it involves life-critical systems. How can software be designed and built to minimize the presence of flaws or mitigate their impacts?  This course focuses on software development processes that identify, model, and mitigate threats to all kinds of software.  Topics include threat modeling frameworks, attack trees, attack libraries, defensive tactics, secure software development lifecycle, web, cloud, and human factors.
CYSC 640 - Cryptography  (4)
The cryptographic primitives of enciphering/deciphering and hashing are the two main methods of preserving confidentiality and integrity of data at rest and in transit. As such, the study of cryptographic techniques is of primary interest to security practitioners. This course will cover the important principles in historical and modern cryptography including the underlying information theory, mathematics, and randomness.  Important technologies such as stream and block ciphers, symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, public key infrastructure, and key exchange will be explored. Finally, hashing and message authentication codes will be examined as a way of preserving data integrity.


																					AND																			

Students may complete a focus area to fulfill the Major Elective requirement.





				Optional Focus Areas			




Students may complete a focus area to fulfill the Major Elective requirement.


																					OR																			
Data Analytics:

MATH 601 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course provides an introductory overview of methods, concepts, and current practices in the growing field of statistics and data analytics. Topics to be covered include data collection, data analysis and visualization as well as probability, statistical inference and regression methods for informed decision-making. Students will explore these topics with current statistical software. Some emphasis will also be given to ethical principles of data analytics.
DATA 605 - Data Visualization & Reporting (4)
This course focuses on collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to create visualizations, dashboards, and stories that can be used to communicate critical business insights. Students will learn how to structure and streamline data analysis projects and highlight their implications efficiently using the most popular visualization tools used by businesses today.
DATA 611 - Applied Machine Learning (4)
This course explores two main areas of machine learning: supervised and unsupervised. Topics include the fundamental concepts, roadmap of a machine learning project, classification algorithms, regression algorithms, dimensionality reduction, model evaluation, natural language processing, neural networks and deep learning, typical issues in real-world machine learning problems, and Python programming in data science.


																					OR																			
Cybersecurity:

CYSC 610 - Information Assurance (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of security in the enterprise environment. Included are coverage of risks and vulnerabilities, threat modeling, policy formation, controls and protection methods, encryption and authentication technologies, network security, cryptography, personnel and physical security issues, as well as ethical and legal issues. This foundational course serves as an introduction to many of the subsequent topics discussed in depth in later security courses. Note, this course has proctored exam(s). This exam requires additional technology, if student uses online proctoring.
CYSC 620 - Software and App Security (4)
Today, software is at the heart of the business processes of nearly every business from finance to manufacturing.  Software pervades everyday life in expected places like phones and computers but also in places that you may not consider such as toasters, thermostats, automobiles, and even light bulbs. Security flaws in software can have impacts ranging from inconvenient to damaging and even catastrophic when it involves life-critical systems. How can software be designed and built to minimize the presence of flaws or mitigate their impacts?  This course focuses on software development processes that identify, model, and mitigate threats to all kinds of software.  Topics include threat modeling frameworks, attack trees, attack libraries, defensive tactics, secure software development lifecycle, web, cloud, and human factors.
CYSC 640 - Cryptography (4)
The cryptographic primitives of enciphering/deciphering and hashing are the two main methods of preserving confidentiality and integrity of data at rest and in transit. As such, the study of cryptographic techniques is of primary interest to security practitioners. This course will cover the important principles in historical and modern cryptography including the underlying information theory, mathematics, and randomness.  Important technologies such as stream and block ciphers, symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, public key infrastructure, and key exchange will be explored. Finally, hashing and message authentication codes will be examined as a way of preserving data integrity.


																					OR																			
Software Systems:

COMP 645 - Object-Oriented Design & Practice (4)
This course surveys current practices in software development and software design, especially in the area of object-oriented design. The course will examine and contrast current and leading edge methodologies and practices, including agile, extreme programming, test-driven design, patterns, aspect-oriented programming, model-driven architecture, Unified Modeling Language, and integrated development environments.
COMP 650 - System Architecture & Engineering (4)
This course covers topics in software systems engineering. Its scope is the design of the overall architecture for software systems with emphasis on distributed architectures. The issues in an architecture centered software development cycle and project management are addressed.
COMP 670 - Application of Artificial Intelligence (4)
This course is an introduction to Artificial Intelligence (AI) from an applied perspective. After an introduction of some basic concepts and techniques (such as searching and knowledge representation), the course illustrates both the theoretical foundation and application of these techniques with examples from a variety of problems.

The course surveys a wide range of active areas in AI such as machine learning, artificial neural networks, evolutionary computing, robotics, intelligent agents and bio-inspired AI approaches. It strikes a balance between engineering approaches and theory.

Exercises include hands-on application of basic AI techniques as well as selection of appropriate technologies for a given problem. The principal topics in the selected areas are also coupled with projects where groups of students will participate in the creation of AI-based applications.





				Corequisites			




COMP 501 - Foundations of Programming (4)
This course covers fundamental programming principles. Students will learn about the basic elements of a computer program, such as data types, assignments, conditional branching, loops, functions, recursion, basic data structures, program debugging, and testing.
OR ITEC 136 - Principles of Programming (4)
This course introduces programming to individuals with little or no programming background. The goal of this course is to introduce the fundamentals of structured programming, problem solving, algorithm design, and software lifecycle. Topics will include testing, data types, operations, repetition and selection control structures, functions and procedures, arrays, and top down stepwise refinement. Students will design, code, test, debug, and document programs in a relevant programming language.
OR COMP 111 - Introduction to Computer Science & Object-Oriented Programming (4)
This course provides an introduction to software construction using an object-oriented approach. The student learns and reflects on problem analysis, object-oriented design, implementation, and testing. To support the concepts and principles of software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. Basic data types, control structures, methods, and classes are used as the building blocks for reusable software components. Automated unit testing, programming style, and industrial practice are emphasized in addition to the object-oriented techniques of abstraction, encapsulation, and composition. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


																					AND																			

COMP 511 - Foundation Data Struc & Obj Orntd Design (4)
This course continues the object-oriented approach to intermediate-level software development. The student will learn and reflect on fundamental object-oriented analysis techniques, basic design patterns, and linear data structures such as lists and queues.
OR COMP 121 - Object-Oriented Data Structures & Algorithms I (4)
This course continues the objected-oriented approach to software construction. The student learns and reflects on advanced object-oriented techniques, algorithm efficiency, class hierarchies, and data structures. To support the concepts and principles of software construction, the student will design, code, test, debug, and document programs using the Java programming language. Design principles, I/O, exception handling, linear data structures (lists, stacks, and queues), and design patterns are emphasized in addition to the object-oriented techniques of inheritance and polymorphism. Note, this course has proctored exam(s).


																					AND																			

MATH 503 - Foundations of Mathematics for Computing (4)
This course introduces students to fundamental algebraic, logical, and combinational concepts in mathematics that are needed in upper division computer science courses. Topics include integer representation; algorithms; modular arithmetic and exponentiation; discrete logarithms; cryptography; recursion; primality testing; number theory; graphs and directed graphs; trees; and Boolean Algebra.
OR MATH 320 - Discrete Mathematics (4)
This course introduces students to fundamental algebraic, logical, and combinational concepts in mathematics that are needed in upper-division computer science courses. Topics include sets, mappings, and relations; elementary counting principles; proof techniques with an emphasis on mathematical induction; graphs and directed graphs; Boolean algebras; recursion; and applications to computer science.


																					AND																			

Students with an undergraduate degree in computer science will be admitted without future prerequisites. However, the students will be expected to possess intermediate Java programming skills as determined by completing COMP 121 or COMP 511, having a Java SE 8 programmer certification from Oracle, or a portfolio of Java-related examples that would include the fundamentals of object-oriented programming, linear and non-liner data structures (stacks, queues, lists, etc.)


																					AND																			

Students without a computer science degree will need to have credit for the above Franklin University courses or the equivalent undergraduate course work for the prerequisites at an institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institution OR appropriate relevant work experience. Graduate prerequisite courses (500 level) must be completed with a grade of "C" or better. Undergraduate prerequisite courses must be completed with a grade of "C" or better. Work experience as a software engineer, developer, or programmer analyst will be evaluated by the program chair upon request. Resumes, work samples, and personal interviews may all be used to determine the depth of knowledge in these areas.



















Free Master's ToolkitEliminate guesswork by comparing schools and calculate the ROI of a master’s degree.Download Now >








  M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the M.S. Computer Science matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.
Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.
Complete the residency requirement:
	
M.S. - Computer Science students must earn at least 24 of the 36 required credits at Franklin University – in any modality (on-site, hybrid or online).


Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;
Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.

Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.






Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Herbert Berger
Cardinal Health Inc.
Enterprise Architect


David Blum
Hylant
Chief Info. + Innovation Officer


Gary Clark
Columbus State Community College
Principal Investigator, Asst. Prof.


Sean Erikson
Grange Insurance Companies
VP, Architecture + IT Strategy


Mihajlo Jovanovic
 JP Morgan Chase
Lead Software Engineer


Perumal Ramasamy
NetJets
VP, Data + Quality Programs


Srini Ramaswamy
Battelle
Head of Technology


Gloria Rogiers
Columbus State Community College
Dean


Paul Varner
Nationwide
Consulting IT Architect


David Vasquez
Nationwide Insurance
Director, IT Applications


Bradley West
HMB Inc.
Dir., Project Mgmt. Practice


Byron White
Chemical Abstracts Service
Software Development Manager












Manasa K.
M.S. Computer Science '20
"Thank you Franklin University, for helping me reach this important milestone in my career." 





Knowledge & Skillsets


Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Data Visualization & Reporting

			



Enhance data collection procedures to include information that is relevant for building analytic systems
Clearly and effectively present completed analysis with new insights and recommendations to the business partners
Create interactive dashboards and stories from multiple data sets







			
  Applied Machine Learning 

			



Collaborate with different departments to build complex predictive models to support overall business objectives and business needs
Process, clean, investigate and verify the integrity of data used for analysis
Research and maintain awareness of best practices and techniques of statistical analysis
Select features, build and optimize classifiers using machine learning techniques







			
  Algorithm Analysis 

			



Evaluate algorithm efficiency and determine the most elegant program logic for problems of varying complexity
Establish algorithm requirements in support of software development roadmaps
Assist in the development of advanced algorithms for next-generation functions
Prototype, design, develop, unit test and release software-utilizing algorithms in support of goals, strategies, technologies and concepts







			
  Distributed Systems

			



Build and maintain high-performance distributed systems to meet organizational needs
Create efficient data structures and analyze distributed algorithms to enable scalable applications
Develop scalable, robust, distributed data architecture to support data analytics in real time
Solve technical challenges and issues around distributed systems
Process large amounts of data and tackle challenging technical problems







			
  Acceptance Testing 

			



Create detailed plans, cases and scripts to test applications
Ensure software meets design specifications and performance standards
Review requirements specifications to ensure testability and compliance with quality control standards







			
  Database Design & Administration 

			



Develop dynamic, data-driven applications through mastery of relational database design, complex SQL queries, and transaction processing
Write SQL database queries of medium to high complexity in support of data analysis and technical programming
Apply relational database design best practices to efficiently build data models
Implement data models, database designs, data access, and table maintenance codes
Analyze large collections of data in order to inform and apply association rules and other techniques, such as genetic encoding, classification hierarchies and regression analysis to decision making
Apply relational algebra to the optimization of queries using heuristics
Utilize data mining techniques to discover knowledge in large data collections
Apply refactoring techniques to modify and improve database designs









  Which Data Analytics Program is Best for You?




Find the Data Analytics Program That Fits Your Goals
If you’re interested in advancing your technology career, Franklin has several great options. Compare programs and identify your perfect match.









section_icons/si-checkmark-color
Created with Sketch.













section_icons/si-checkmark-white
Created with Sketch.












								M.S. in Computer Science Data Analytics Focus 
			





section_icons/si-document-color
Created with Sketch.




















section_icons/si-document-white
Created with Sketch.



















								M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics Focus 
			





icon_tiles/it-clipboard_chart-color
Created with Sketch.




















icon_tiles/it-clipboard_chart-color
Created with Sketch.
















								M.S. in Data Analytics
			



Focus: 
Enhance your expertise as you combine the principles of computer science with the elements of data modeling to facilitate knowledge discovery and application.
 
Skills:
Develop in-demand skills in the areas of database design, data mining, statistical analysis and visual storytelling.
 
Careers: 
Put your M.S. in Computer Science-Data Analytics to work helping organizations leverage data-informed insights for business growth and success.
 
How many courses are in the program?
Nine 12-week courses
 
How quickly can I complete the program?
20 months


Learn More





Focus: 
Grow your skills as a technologist that uses data and statistical reasoning to identify trends, make predictions and inform decision making.
 
Skills:
Strengthen your understanding and application of statistical inference methodologies, data mining tools and techniques, and visual-based reporting.
 
Careers: 
Use your M.S. in IT-Data Analytics to help organizations understand and apply data to enhance position, demonstrate value, and improve profitability.
 
How many courses are in the program?
Nine 12-week courses
 
How quickly can I complete the program?
16 months


Learn More





Focus: 
Develop proficiency in using data as a predictive tool for solving business challenges and creating a competitive advantage.
 
Skills:
Learn to use and apply descriptive and predictive analytics, data visualization and computer algorithms.
 
Careers: 
Apply your M.S. in Data Analytics to help organizations use data to maximize operations, inform decision making and optimize financial performance.
 
How many courses are in the program?
Eight 12-week courses
 
How quickly can I complete the program?
19 months


Learn More











  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.













Frequently Asked Questions





		What is a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


The M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program built on a solid foundation of computer science principles, including advanced data structure and programming, algorithm analysis and distributed systems, and combined with applied skills in data analytics.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll gain applied skills in data analytics within a computer science framework that can prepare you for a variety of positions including data engineer, machine learning engineer and data scientist.




		Why get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll be equipped to combine computer science and data modeling to uncover new opportunities for your organization.Building on the core principles of a master’s-level computer science program, the cybersecurity focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics is a 20-month, 100% online program influenced and designed by leaders in the technology industry. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics in as few as 20 months.


See All >




Back to College Blog




 How Hard is Computer Science?



 Should I Get a Master’s in Computer Science?



Master’s in Computer Science Requirements: Everything You Need To Know



Master's in Computer Science Salary: What Pay Can You Expect?



 Can You Get a Master’s in Computer Science Online with an Unrelated Bachelor’s?






  Related Programs




M.S. in Cybersecurity 
M.S. in Data Analytics 
M.S. in Information Technology
M.S. Instructional Design & Learning Technology




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog