URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/academic-resources/dept-accounting-finance-risk-management
Current Student - Accounting and Finance Division | Franklin University



















Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management  

Home
                /  
                                              Academic Resources
                /  
                                              Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management
                          

  Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management



Geared towards current accounting and finance students, view the most up-to-date information regarding various opportunities such as scholarships, careers, and external conferences and events. You will also find information about examinations, professional organizations, and hands-on learning based on your field of study.




Contact Us



			
  Contact Information

			


Dr. Martina Peng, CFP®
Chair, Department of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management
Chair, B.S. Financial Planning
Chair, B.S. Financial Management
martina.peng@franklin.edu
614.947.6174
Annette Hoelzer, MT, CPA
Lead Faculty, Forensic Accounting and Business Forensics
annette.hoelzer@franklin.edu
614.947.6132
Dr. Beth Vermeer, CPA
Chair, M.S. Accounting
beth.vermeer@franklin.edu
614.947.6226
Kristin Martin, DBA
Lead Faculty, Financial Management
kristin.martin@franklin.edu
614.947.6638











  Programs




This website is mainly focused on students who are majoring in these programs.

B.S. Accounting
B.S. Business Forensics
B.S. Financial Management
B.S. Financial Planning
B.S. Forensic Accounting
M.S. Accounting







  Scholarships




Make sure to pay close attention to scholarship requirements and deadlines.




AccountingNSA Scholarship FoundationAICPA ScholarshipsACFE Ritchie-Jennings Memorial Scholarship ProgramFinanceCenter for Financial PlanningFinancial ManagementNAPFA ScholarshipsInvestopedia.comBestvalueschools.com
	 






			
  Statewide College Scholarships & The Clarke Price Scholarship

			


Statewide College Scholarships & The Clarke Price Scholarship

Deadline to apply: December 1st, 2020
One-time award of $2000
Non-renewable, however, can apply for consideration in subsequent years if eligibility is still met
Scholarships are sent directly to institution
Scholarships are paid in July for fall semester tuition and fees

Requirements:

Attending an HLC and/or AACSB accredited college or university in Ohio
Have completed at least 30 semester hours of college credit, including at least six semester hours in accounting
Be enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program in fall 2021
Be enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program as part of a plan to obtain the 150 semester hours required for the CPA exam
Be a U.S. citizen or have a permanent resident VISA
GPA of 3.0 or better
Be a student affiliate member (will include link to post on how to become a student member) 

Click here to apply online for the Ohio Society of CPAs Scholarship today!






			
  Certified Management Accountant Scholarship

			


The CMA (Certified Management Accountant) certification is the benchmark for management accountants, certifying mastery of 12 core practice areas in the profession. Take the CMA while still in school and graduate with a competitive edge to start your career.
Deadline: Applications are open year-round, with most scholarships awarded April through June. Students must activate their scholarship within two weeks of notification from IMA.
*Students cannot self-nominate. Talk to one of your professors and ask them to nominate you for the scholarship.
Who can apply: 

High-achieving student (undergrad to Ph.D.)
Students attending an accredited college or university
Only 10 students per school per academic year can be nominated
All students who are nominated by a professor will earn the scholarship

What the scholarship includes: 

Entrance free to the CMA program
Exam support with retired exam questions and a glossary of terms
Registration fees covering both parts of the exam (retakes are not covered)
Wiley CMAexcel Online Test Bank access for both exam parts for up to two years
Up to three years of IMA membership while pursuing the certification

Have your professor nominate you here!






			
  Ritchie-Jennings Memorial Scholarship

			


The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners offers the Ritchie-Jennings Memorial Scholarship. The scholarship is various amounts ranging from $1,000 to $10,000 and includes a one-year ACFE Student Associate membership.
Details: 

2021-2022 Application period is now open
Deadline: February 1, 2021
Scholarship Award Recipients Announced: April 20, 2021
Scholarship Awards Distributed: May 3, 2021

Eligibility: 

Undergraduate students must be enrolled in 9 semester hours per term and be at least in the second half of their sophomore year when applying
Graduate students must be enrolled in 6 semester hours per term
Be currently enrolled at an accredited, four-year college or university with enrollment through the 21-22 academic year
Submit a completed scholarship application
Provide official transcripts showing all completed college or university courses
Two recommendation forms must be submitted on behalf of the applicant* (see website for more details)

Apply online today for the Ritchie-Jennings Memorial Scholarship!






			
  PCPS George Willie Ethnically Diverse Student Scholarship & Internship

			


The AICPA|PCPS offers the George Willie Ethnically Diverse Student Scholarship & Internship. The scholarship is available to 10 recipients and worth up to $10,000. Scholarship is for the final year of tuition towards an accounting degree. Funds are paid directly to the school prior to each semester. Selected applicants will also participate in a busy season internship which runs January – April 2022.
Details:
Open Date: Feb. 1, 2021
Close Date: Apr. 16, 2021
Close Time: 3 p.m. Eastern
Requirements: 

Plan to pursue CPA credential 
Minority student of Black or African American; Hispanic or Latino; Native American or Alaska Native;; Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander; Multiethnic or Asian American 
Enrolled full-time and plan to remain enrolled full-time for the upcoming academic year 
Completed at least 120 hours of course work and have 30 hours or fewer of upper-level accounting courses remaining prior to the upcoming academic year (working toward completing the 150-hour credit requirement for CPA licensure) 
Availability for an internship during the 2022 busy season (January-April) 
U.S. Citizen or permanent resident (green card holder) 
Be an AICPA Student Affiliate member (or have submitted a new member application). Apply online at no cost.

Apply online today for the George Willie Ethnically Diverse Student Scholarship & Internship!






			
  RIA Talent Advantage Scholarship

			


Schwab Advisor Services™ and the Charles Schwab Foundation created the RIA Talent Advantage Student Scholarship to help remove financial barriers, advocate for diversity, and open doors for future talent within the independent RIA industry.
Deadline: June 3, 2021
Scholarship Award Recipients Announced: July 6, 2021
Funds Disbursed: Early August 2021
Details:

One-time, non-renewable amount of $10,000
12 awards will be given for the 2021-22 academic year
	
6 of these awards will be diversity scholarships that focus on the under-represented groups in the profession



Eligibility:

Be a current college freshman, sophomore, or junior (You will need to be enrolled in Fall 2021) ·
Be in satisfactory academic standing with your college/university ·
Be pursuing a Bachelor’s degree or a minor in financial planning at an accredited 4-year institution ·
Not related “by blood or marriage” to a Schwab employee, Foundation director or officer ·
Not be an incoming Schwab intern

In addition to meeting the criteria listed above, members of under-represented groups, listed below, may choose to apply for one of six Diversity Scholarships: ·

Black or African-American
Hispanic or Latinx
American Indian, Alaska Native, or First Nations
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Middle Eastern or North African
Asian
Female
Gender Diverse

Apply online today for the RIA Talent Advantage Scholarship!






			
  AICPA Accounting Scholars Leadership Workshop

			


The AICPA Accounting Scholars Leadership Workshop (ASLW) is an all-expenses-paid annual invitational program for minority accounting students. This event aims to strengthen students’ professional skills and understanding of the limitless possibilities and benefits of earning the CPA credential.
When: Wednesday, October 13 - Friday, October 15, 2021 at the
Where: Le Méridien, 333 Poydras St, New Orleans, LA 70130.
Details: 

Opens: March 1, 2021
Closes: May 15, 2021
Number of Recipients: 200

Eligible applicants must: 

Be a declared accounting major, or have interest in joining the accounting profession
Be a college freshman, sophomore, junior, senior, 5th year, or graduate student
Have maintained a minimum 3.0 GPA
Be actively involved in campus and community activities
Have not attended a past workshop
Be an ethnic minority (i.e., Black or African American; Hispanic or Latino; Native American; or Asian, etc.)
Be a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident (green card holder)
Be a Student Affiliate Member of the AICPA. Join as a student member for free  
Name and email address of one reference who has agreed to provide a recommendation on your behalf. At least one reference must be from either a faculty member OR a licensed CPA

Get more details and apply online!






			
  AICPA COVID-19 Student Hardship Grant

			


The AICPA Foundation created the COVID-19 Student Hardship Grant to support accounting students who have experienced extenuating circumstances such as a job loss, internship loss, etc. due to COVID-19.
Details: 

Open Date: June 15, 2021 
Close Date: Sept. 15, 2021 
Number of Recipients: 25 
Amount: $2,000

Requirements: 

Be an AICPA Student Affiliate member (or have submitted a new member application) 
Be a current accounting student with plans to pursue CPA licensure, but not a CPA currently 
Not be a current AICPA Legacy Scholar or AICPA Foundation CPA Exam Scholarship recipient 
Have experienced personal hardship as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic (see examples on their site) 
Be pursuing an undergraduate or graduate-level degree in accounting or an accounting-related major 
Be attending a public or private, not-for-profit (501 (c)) four-year college or university in the U.S. or territories for the full 2021-22 academic year 
Have completed at least 30 semester hours (or equivalent) of college coursework, including at least 6 semester hours (or equivalent) in accounting 
Maintain an overall and major GPA of at least 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) 
Be enrolled as a full-time student undergraduate (12 semester hours or equivalent) or a full-time graduate-level student (9 semester hours or equivalent) for the 2021-22 academic year 
Be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident (green card holder) 
Be enrolled in a business and/or accounting program that is regionally, nationally, or internationally accredited for the full 2021-22 academic year. (see further explanation on their site) 

Required Documents:

A personal statement explaining your hardship and how it has impacted your future studies and plans to pursue licensure (up to 1,000 words) 
Any supporting documents that confirm your case (notice of termination from employer, notice of termination of internship) 
Unofficial or official-student-issued transcript(s) uploaded through the application 
A copy of your updated resume 
A completed online application







			
  AICPA Foundation CPA Exam Scholarship

			


The AICPA Foundation created this scholarship was created to assist students and CPA candidates with some of the costs associated with taking the CPA Exam.
Details: 

Open Date: June 15, 2021 
Close Date: Sept. 15, 2021 
Number of Recipients: 50 
Amount: $1,500

Requirements: 

Be an AICPA Student Affiliate member (or have submitted a new member application) 
Be planning to pursue CPA licensure, but not a CPA currently 
Be approved to test by NASBA or your State Board of Accountancy and agree to sit for at least one part of the exam within nine months of the date on the application approval letter.
Not have already completed all four parts of the exam (may have completed up to three parts).
Have some financial need (i.e., not receiving any scholarship, grant, or employer reimbursement that would cover exam costs or preparatory courses).
Recipients may be current or prior AICPA Legacy Scholarship recipients.
Be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident (green card holder).

Required Documents:

A copy of a Notice to Schedule (NTS) AND a copy of your receipt for payment of exam application fees.
If applicable, receipts of paid exam preparatory courses for reimbursement (no more than $1,500 will be reimbursed to selected recipients for exam fees and or exam preparatory courses).
Unofficial or official-student-issued academic transcript(s) from your graduate and/or undergraduate degree where you met the 120 or 150 credit hours requirement; state dependent.
A copy of your updated resume 
A completed online application

Apply online today!






			
  Ohio Society of CPA's Scholarship

			


The Ohio Society of CPA's Scholarship program, funded by The Ohio CPA Foundation, awards Ohio’s accounting majors who plan to become CPAs. All scholarships are one-time awards of $2,000. Scholarship awards are sent directly to the recipient's academic institution in July for the recipient’s fall semester tuition and fees.
To be considered for a scholarship, candidates must meet the following requirements:

Students must attend an HLC and/or AACSB accredited college or university in Ohio.
Have completed at least 30 semester hours of college credit, including at least six semester hours in accounting.
Be enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program in fall 2022.
Be enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program as part of a plan to obtain the 150 semester hours required for the CPA exam.
Be a U.S. citizen or have a permanent resident visa.
Have a GPA of 3.0 or better.
Be a student affiliate member of The Ohio Society of CPAs.







			
  UWorld Roger CPA Review Scholarship

			


Join the 94% of accounting students who pass the CPA Exam with UWorld Roger CPA Review Courses - Updated for July 2021 Exam Changes! With their CPA Prep program, you’ll master difficult accounting topics on a deeper level so that you can truly understand the material—ensuring you excel, not just on the exam but beyond in your career. UWorld Roger CPA Exam prep courses provide the motivation you need now with engaging and effective learning techniques that will thoroughly prepare you for CPA Exam success.
They are accepting applications for the UWorld Roger CPA Review scholarship. This is your opportunity to earn a full-ride to the Elite-Unlimited CPA Exam Review course, valued at over $3,000.
The Fall 2021 Scholarship deadline is October 26, 2021.
Recipients will be announced by November 5, 2021. Apply online today.
Apply online today.







  Additional Information











  Examinations
Learn how you can advance your career by taking professional examinations for your field of study.Learn More



  Experiential Learning
Learn how you can gain real-world experience before you graduate through our experiential learning opportunities.
 Learn More



  Professional Organizations
Learn how you can continue your education by joining professional organization pertaining to your field of study.Learn More



  Student, Alumni, and Faculty Spotlight
Learn more about outstanding achievements from leaders, influencers and innovators within the Franklin University community! Learn More












Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms