URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/doctoral/education/organizational-leadership-focus
Ed.D. Organizational Leadership Online | Doctor of Education | Franklin.edu



















Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Organizational Leadership-Organizational Leadership Focus
 

  60Credit Hours55%Max Transfer CreditClass TypeSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 10, 2025
																																			Mar 17, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 16, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 22, 2025
																																			Oct 27, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 9, 2026
																																			Mar 16, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 15, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 10, 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 21, 2026
																																			Oct 26, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Years To CompleteFinish in as few as 3 yearsRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Doctoral Degrees
                /  
                                              Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)
                /  
                                              Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus
                          

  Take your organization to a higher level with an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership 


Meaningful change is an organization’s most powerful tool. The catalyst behind that tool? A great leader. Franklin’s Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership with a focus in Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership) can help you evolve into a more innovative, influential and impactful leader. Besides learning vital leadership, research and analytical skills, Franklin’s Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership will help you expand your capacity as a master change agent. With Franklin’s Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership online degree program, you’ll build upon your current experience and develop enhanced skills that empower you to successfully drive transformation.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Real-World Focus
Apply leadership and management theories within the context of actual challenges.



  Data-Driven Leadership
Maximize the continuous improvement process.



  No-Fear Dissertation™
Get 360-degree support to take on (and finish!) your dissertation.



  3-Year Completion
Finish your doctorate faster -- including one year for your dissertation.



  Amplify Prior Learning
Transfer up to 33 hours of previously earned credit.



  100% Online Degree
Take classes that work for your busy life.










Program Overview




  Learn with more breadth and depth to grow your leadership skills and abilities

With Franklin’s Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership degree program, you’ll build a strong foundation for your work as a scholar-practitioner within even the most complex organizations. You’ll develop and hone your capabilities, preparing you to provide strong, effective, forward-thinking leadership across a wide range of organizational leadership roles. And, as an Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership student, you’ll gain valuable experience applying research skills and leadership theory and practice to drive positive organizational cultural and teamwork results.Guide your organization – and career – to a more dynamic futureEverything evolves. Systems. Organizations. Even people. Organizational leadership is essential to ensuring that this evolution is carefully curated to promote success. With Franklin’s online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership program, you’ll consider both historical and modern-day leadership concepts, theories and constructs. And you’ll conduct in-depth scholarly research to help you translate these transformational, servant and authentic leadership theories into practice for the real world.You’ll also be challenged to assess your own leadership strengths and weaknesses. More importantly, you’ll use your findings to develop a self-directed action plan to level-up your leadership competencies to personal growth and professional success.Improve your research-based ability to effectively influence positive culture and behavior change When it comes to organizational effectiveness, there’s no room for complacency. Instead, the bar must rise. Organizations rely on progressive leaders who set a vision, identify opportunities and clear the way for maximizing growth and success. Key to bringing this ideal to reality is the development of a healthy organizational culture. As part of your Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership studies, you’ll research the fundamental ideas and constructs behind organizational culture and behavior. Through critical thinking, analysis, research writing and evaluation, you’ll then develop a research-ready proposal designed to influence and transform organizational culture and behavior.Differentiate yourself with a widely recognized and respected credentialTo build a standout career, you must stand out among other leaders. Earning your Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership can help you do just that. Not only is Franklin’s Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership a widely recognized credential, it’s also a respected one that will distinguish you from other high performers and widen your career path. Not only are graduates of Franklin’s Ed.D.-Organizational Leadership online degree program effective leaders, they’re also poised to coach and mentor others into their own leadership roles.  Succeed with our unique dissertation structureIf there’s such a thing as a no-fear dissertation process, Franklin has it. We’ve intentionally designed a dissertation structure to help you complete your dissertation step-by-step, beginning with your enrollment in the program. We’ve also built-in faculty mentoring and guidance, and peer-to-peer support so you’re never left to “figure it out” on your own.Throughout the Ed.D. Organizational Leadership program, you’ll develop important research skills and the necessary writing prowess to complete and publish a dissertation in practice (DiP) as the culmination of your studies. Your DiP will showcase your ability to solve a challenge within the workplace using action research. As a part of the (DiP), you will test your hypotheses in the real world, or based on your findings, document a process to implement your solution.Read more >



Dr. Rachelle S.
Doctor of Education
"Franklin University's Ed.D. in K-12 education and organizational leadership equipped me with the critical tools and insights to navigate the complex landscape of Education. Franklin took the guesswork out of the doctoral process from application to dissertation and paved a pathway for my success, completing the program in under three years. Franklin University's Ed.D. program not only expanded my knowledge but also instilled in me the confidence and competence to lead with vision, empathy, and a commitment to student success." 







  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February10Recommended Register By: Jan 31 

Spring 2025March17Recommended Register By: Mar 7 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June16Recommended Register By: Jun 6 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September22Recommended Register By: Sep 12 

Fall 2025October27Recommended Register By: Oct 17 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February9Recommended Register By: Jan 30 

Spring 2026March16Recommended Register By: Mar 6 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June15Recommended Register By: Jun 5 

Fall 2026August10Recommended Register By: Jul 31 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September21Recommended Register By: Sep 11 

Fall 2026October26Recommended Register By: Oct 16 









  Your Best Value Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Choose Franklin's Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership and get an applied doctorate that fits your budget and your ambition.







Finish Formula


3
YEARS TO COMPLETE

2 years of coursework + 1 year for the dissertation.






Transfer MORE Credits, Pay LESS tuition*



$42,636
|
$62,084


Max Transfer Credits
Avg Transfer Credits

*$748 per credit, 90 Total Credits, 33 maximum transfer credits, 7 average transfer credits.




Tuition estimate based on average or max transfer credits; actual costs may vary. Note: 90 Total Credits = 60 Doctoral Program Total Credits + 30 Prior Master Credits
×








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.







$67,320
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








Faculty Support




Be mentored + guided by doctoral faculty advisor from first term through candidacy. 






Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.

Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.
×








×







Curriculum & Course Descriptions



				60 Semester Hours
			


				Research Core			




ENG 8010 - Introduction to Doctoral Studies, Writing, and Research (3)
This course will establish the doctoral program structure and associated expectations, requirements, and support resources, as well as prepare students to be active participants in advanced professional and academic discourse by examining and practicing the writing conventions associated with their chosen field of study.  As part of an intentional learning community, students will become familiar with the varied conventions of disciplinary writing and analyze the ongoing scholarly conversations pertinent to their academic interest by identifying common scholarly writing conventions, composing knowledge base articles, and responding to both their peers? works in progress and published scholarly writing.  


ENG 8020 - Doctoral Writing & Research (3)
This course will build on the foundational work of ENG8010 to ensure that students continue to compose in academic and professional genres in order to compose and communicate scholarly arguments and perspectives in their chosen field of study.  In addition to applying scholarly writing conventions associated both with doctoral scholarship and with their chosen field of study, students will continue to cultivate a learning community and develop field-specific research in order to compose knowledge-base articles, annotated bibliographies, literature reviews and analytical research papers.


MTHD 8003 - Introduction to Qualitative Methods (2)
Through this course, students will gain an overview of qualitative research methods. The course starts with successful completion of the CITI training - the protection of human research participants, then move on to introduce some of the critical works in qualitative research methods and design as well as give an overview of the historical progression of the field. Students will become familiar with the various approaches to qualitative methods, including narrative approach, phenomenology, grounded theory, ethnography, and case studies. Students will gain hands-on experience with qualitative sampling design, observations, and qualitative data collection. They will also get some introduction in qualitative data analysis, validity, reliability, and researchers' bias in qualitative work. At the end of this course, students will be introduced to the research proposal to get a start on the guidelines required for their dissertation proposal.


MTHD 8004 - Introduction to Quantitative Methods & Research Design (2)
Through this course, students will gain an overview of quantitative research designs and methods, including experimental, quasi-experimental, and non-experimental designs. The course will also introduce students to quantitative sampling techniques, data collection approaches, and data analysis. Students will also engage in practical hands-on experience with formulating a research question or hypotheses, discussing important ethical issues, designing sampling methods, collecting data, and analyzing data. They will learn how to examine validity and reliability issues and will be introduced to available software for conducting quantitative design. At the end of this course, students will be introduced to the research proposal to get a start on the guidelines required for their dissertation proposal.


MATH 8070 - Statistical Reasoning and Interpretation (2)
This course will introduce students to the concepts underlying basic data collection, analysis, and interpretation. Core topics include descriptive statistics, selection and operationalization of variables, scales of measurement, data types, sampling techniques, and means of collecting data. Using a current statistical analysis program, students will learn to describe data sets using measures of dispersion and relative position, to compute probability of occurrence of events, to compute measures of relationship, and to convey and interpret results of various analyses in written form.


MATH 8090 - Statistical Techniques for Research Inquiry (3)
This course will emphasize the alignment of statistical procedures with research methods, including selection and application of appropriate statistical analyses given a data set and a problem statement, including comparison tests, tests of prediction/relationships, and tests of predicting group membership. Moreover, students will develop skills of data set manipulation, including ?cleaning and screening? data, and assessing conditions in order to choose between parametric and non-parametric tests. Additional emphasis will be placed upon conveying and interpreting results of analyses in written form.


																					AND																			

MTHD 8015 - Questionnaires & Scale Development (2)
This is a hands-on course designed to equip student with skills and knowledge necessary to develop new, valid and reliable instruments as well as help improve existing ones. In particular, the course looks at the evolution of measurement development, the different types of tests used in various settings, the psychometric properties and the process involved in developing reliable and valid measurement instruments. The course includes creation of a reliable and valid measurement that can be readily applied in a given context and/or field.
OR MTHD 8016 - Qualitative Data Analysis (2)
The qualitative data analysis course focuses on qualitative coding, analysis, and interpretation of findings, and writing of the qualitative results.  These skills will prepare students for the doctoral candidacy journey. The goal of this course is to collect readily available text data, work on mapping, memoing, coding, analyzing, interpreting, and writing qualitative results. 
OR MTHD 8017 - Critical & Social Theory (2)
In this course, students will be introduced to the main schools of critical and social theory: structuralism, post-structuralism, cultural theory, queer theory, gender theory, critical race theory, disability studies, and post-colonialism among others. Students will analyze foundational theoretical scholarship, examine how critical and social theory has developed over time, and consider the ways in which theory might inform their own research. Throughout the course, students will complete short papers as well as a major writing assignment at the end of the term. 
OR MTHD 8018 - Research Design (2)
The aim of this course is for students to learn about and be able to apply key research design frameworks in quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods approaches. In particular, students will learn conditions under which each design and/or approach would be most appropriate and effective. Additionally, students will learn how to formulate research questions, critically evaluate various research designs in order to select a suitable one for a given research problem, develop appropriate data collection and analysis procedures and plans as well as ethical conduct of research studies. During the course, students will learn to craft a research propose integrating critical components, namely background of study, purpose statement, research question, theoretical framework, significance of the study, critical review and synthesis of key literature underpinning the study, appropriate research design, and data collection and analysis procedures. 


																					AND																			

MTHD 8020 - Advanced Quantitative Research & Design (3)
This is an advanced course in statistics that covers analyses used in multivariate statistical techniques. The course is designed to broaden and deepen learners understanding of advanced statistics in multivariate techniques. As such, several multivariate techniques are covered, including their appropriateness to given situations, analysis, and interpretation. The emphasis of the course is on practical application of concepts learnt to given research problems and/or opportunities. The course is developed to balance theory and application and provides numerous opportunities for application to practical problems. Learners also complete a draft research proposal integrating sound research plans and procedures.
OR MTHD 8022 - Advanced Qualitative Research & Design (3)
The advanced qualitative research course builds on the knowledge and skills students acquire in MTHD 803 and MTHD 804. This course leads students on an in depth treatment of qualitative research methodology, exploring its theoretical underpinnings and associated methods for design, data collection, interpretation, and reporting of results. Ethics are emphasized for each stage of research. This course will also guide students to develop the methodology and data analysis for their dissertation proposal and research.
OR MTHD 8024 - Advanced Mixed Methods Research & Design (3)
Through this course, students will familiarize with mixed-methods research and design.  They will gain knowledge on the four different types of mixed-methods: triangulation design, embedded design, explanatory design, and exploratory design. Students will learn how to conceptualize their own study in terms of these different design types.  They will gain hands-on experience on how to formulate a research question fitted for a mixed-methods design, collect some data, and analyze it.  They will discuss and learn about challenges and advantages of mixed-methods designs. At the end of this course students will be able to work on their dissertation proposal.





				Major Area Required			




EDUC 8102 - Teaching in Higher Education (4)
The course will study the teaching and learning philosophies, methods, and techniques in higher education. Topics will cover learning theories, instructional design models, instructional strategies, and evaluation of student performance. By the end of this course, students will develop their own teaching philosophy along with an instructional unit demonstrating their mastery of learning theories and instructional design models, selection of proper learning technologies in designing the instruction, and incorporation of appropriate instructional and assessment methods.  In addition, students will also explore faculty careers in higher education.


MGMT 8175 - Change Mgmt & Organizational Development (4)
This course focuses on research and evaluation of the key theoretical concepts and practices central to the leading of organizational change initiatives. Students will evaluate real-world situations, cases and scenarios in order to recommend and justify theoretically-based change management practices to ensure ongoing organizational acceptance and effectiveness of these programs. Students will conduct scholarly research to explore, evaluate and interpret state-of0the-art change concepts for their viability in today's organizations. Students will assess the role of change agents as key players in the overall change process.


EDUC 8101 - Leadership of Organizational Principles (4)
This core course focuses on leadership and followership skills and attributes through the lens of traditional and 21st century leadership theories, constructs and concepts as applied to  institutions. Students will apply transformational and other state-of-the-art leadership theoretical underpinnings to real-world cases, scenarios and situations that involve optimal practices in leading individuals and organizations through leadership challenging scenarios and other situations. The course concentrates on the application of critical thinking to optimal practices in leading institutions, their stakeholders and culture for optimal effectiveness.


EDUC 8105 - Leadership of Organizational Resources (4)
This core course focuses on state-of-the-art leadership skills necessary for the effectiveness of today's leaders and managers. The course concentrates on the specific transformational,  servant-leadership, and other leadership competencies and skills necessary for providing sound management of institutional resources, projects, and performance. Students will apply leadership theoretical underpinnings to real-world cases, scenarios and situations that involve effective and ineffective resource and performance management practices. The course concentrates on the application of critical thinking and decision-making in optimal practices for providing highly effective leadership in today's organizations.





				Focus Area			



Organizational Leadership:

MGMT 8150 - Organizational Leadership (4)
This course addresses historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs. An emphasis will be on the application and assessment of transformational, servant and authentic leadership theories for us by both leaders and followers in 21st century business and academic settings. The course will challenge students to assess their own leadership strengths and weaknesses and produce an in-depth plan of action to develop and refine leadership competencies. Students will conduct substantive scholarly research to address and capture relevant and cutting edge leadership theoretical work for application in course assignments.
MGMT 8145 - Organizational Behavior, Culture & Effectiveness (4)
This course is an advanced research seminar in the field of organizational culture and behavior. The seminar allows you to begin the process of substantive academic research and formal inquiry into these important theories and the implications of these for managers. The seminar will require the synthesis of critical thinking, analysis, research writing and evaluation. Students will develop a key deliverable that involves a research proposal in the fields of organizational culture and behavior and then conduct substantive research into the literature developed by others. The final project in the seminar is the development of a research ready proposal utilizing at minimum one research methodology.


																					OR																			
PK-12 Educational Leadership:

EDUC 811 - Leading for Learning (4)
This course will provide educational leaders with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to lead with a student-centered approach, create high-reliability learning organizations, make data-driven decisions, and effectively engage with the community, ultimately driving positive educational outcomes and enhancing the overall learning experience for students and staff alike. 
EDUC 813 - Finance and Resource Management (4)
This course prioritizes the acquisition of the necessary skills to engage in effective board relations, develop sustainable financial plans, and build a foundation of shared leadership that positions the educational institution for continuous growth.  This emphasis on collaboration, communication, ethics, goal-setting, shared leadership, and sustainability will empower educational leaders to navigate the complexities of resource management successfully, fostering a thriving learning environment for all stakeholders. 


																					OR																			
Higher Education Leadership:

EDUC 8140 - College & University Leadership Structures (4)
This course provides an examination of leadership theories and structures in institutions of higher education. Focusing on major theories of leadership of higher education organizations that inform leadership practices, students will develop skills as practitioners in university leadership. By the end of the course, students will be able to understand the structure and function of university leadership structures from multiple theoretical perspectives. Students will gain an understanding of the management, leadership, and administrative roles of academic and student affairs offices in colleges and universities including personnel, program definition, research and teaching issues, and other functions of academic and programming oversight. Additional consideration to the roles, responsibilities, and leadership styles required will be examined for different organizational contexts. Through the linking of theory to practice, the class activities will lead students to develop skills as campus leaders and to empower them to make conscious, deliberate decisions, utilizing multiple, and at times divergent, theoretical frames.
EDUC 8145 - History of U.S. Higher Education (4)
The purpose of this course is to explore critical, challenges facing American higher education. The course explores the history of higher education, with an emphasis on the development of higher education in the United States, to present day challenges facing intuitions. It includes issues of access, accountability, academic freedom, financial aid, state and federal government policy, changing legal structures, teaching and learning in a digital age, student issues, diversity, and the influence of business models and values on institutional strategy and practice. This course also covers different educational systems (Community Colleges, Private Colleges, and Public Colleges) and the critical issues affecting their institutional type. Students will gain an understanding of their responsibilities, critical thinking, and explore current issues that affect managers in institutions of higher education. This course addresses interdisciplinary influences on leadership practice within learning organizations and focuses on recent developments that have broad implications for research and practice in educational leadership.





				Major Electives			





											8 credits from
																																	levels 8000-8999											in the following subjects: ACCT, EDUC, HCM, HIM, HRM, IDL, ITEC, MGMT, MKTG, MTHD, PUAD.										





				Dissertation/Dissertation in Practice Requirements			




DISS 9000 - Comprehensive Exam (1)
This course is designed for students to prepare for, take and complete their comprehensive exam. Remedial strategies and actions will also be provided for students who do not successfully pass their comprehensive exam on the first attempt, with the opportunity for a retake during the six weeks of the course if the student chooses to do so. A third attempt on taking the Doctoral Comprehensive Examination will not be automatically provided to doctoral students failing to successfully pass the examination after two attempts. Any third attempt will only be considered upon receiving a written petition by the student requesting a final attempt. The request may or may not be approved based on review by the Dean of Doctoral Studies and the student's doctoral Program Chair. Students who fail the comprehensive examination two times, or fail the examination three times when a third attempt was granted through appeal, are dismissed from doctoral studies at Franklin University.


																					AND																			

At least 6 credits from the following courses:
DISS 9100 - Dissertation  (1-4)
In consultation with the Dissertation Chair and Committee Members, the doctoral candidate will design and conduct research to complete the aims identified in their research prospectus, proposal and IRB application or as subsequently modified in line with recommendations from the Chair and Committee Members. This course may be repeated as necessary to earn sufficient credit or to finalize the Dissertation to fulfill requirements to earn the doctorate.


																					AND																			

DISS 9400 - Defense of Dissertation (1)
Doctoral candidates will finalize all aspects of the Dissertation/Dissertation in Practice and make an oral defense of their design, methods and findings.





				Optional Focus Areas			





Students may complete 8 credit hours of a focus area to count within the Major Elective requirement. Only one declared focus area will print on the diploma.



																					OR																			

Accounting Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
ACCT 8240 - Advanced Financial Accounting  (4)
This course is an advanced accounting research seminar in financial reporting. The seminar allows you to begin the process of substantive academic research and formal inquiry into important financial reporting theories and the implications of these for accountants. The seminar will require the synthesis of critical thinking, analysis, research writing and evaluation. Students will develop a key deliverable that involves a research proposal in financial accounting thought and then conduct substantive research into the literature developed by others. The final project in the seminar is the development of a research ready proposal utilizing at minimum one research methodology.
ACCT 8250 - Advanced Managerial Accounting  (4)
This course is an advanced accounting research seminar in managerial accounting. The seminar allows you to begin the process of substantive academic research and formal inquiry into these important theories and the implications of these for managerial accountants. The seminar will require the synthesis of critical thinking, analysis, research writing and evaluation. Students will develop a key deliverable that involves a research proposal in managerial accounting and then conduct substantive research into the literature developed by others. The final project in the seminar is the development of a research ready proposal utilizing at minimum one research methodology.
ACCT 8260 - Advanced Auditing  (4)
This course is an advanced accounting research seminar in auditing. The seminar allows you to begin the process of substantive academic research and formal inquiry into important auditing theories and the implications of these for accountants. The seminar will require the synthesis of critical thinking, analysis, research, writing and evaluation. Students will develop a research proposal in auditing based on their substantive research into the accounting, auditing and business literature. The final project in the seminar is the development of a research ready proposal, including an appropriate research methodology that describes an issue, problem or proactive need as documented in the literature, for which the student will formulate, describe and defend an appropriate solution.



																					OR																			

Health Informatics Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
HIM 8202 - Advanced Health Information Governance  (4)
In this course students will evaluate an organizations current health information governance infra-structure and will make recommendations for improvement that will cover the broad spectrum of strategic issues in healthcare including policies, guidelines, standards, processes and controls required to manage and implement enterprise-level information. Students will research how health data and organizational information systems are utilized as a strategic asset to healthcare organizations, process to manage various risks to the quality of information and ensure its appropriate use.
HIM 8210 - Advanced Clinical Workflow & Applications  (4)
In this course students will evaluate an organizations existing clinical workflows to include a variety of inpatient, outpatient and emergency healthcare environments. Material in the course covers the documentation, review, mapping and diagramming of clinical workflow information and processes. Students will also assess and make recommendations for improvement of patient care to workflow mapping and change management, as part of evidence based decision making in healthcare.
HIM 8261 - Advanced Healthcare Analytics  (4)
In this course students will evaluate an organizations existing process of retrieving, analyzing and reporting intelligence to make healthcare decisions. Student will assess and make recommendations for improvement on the techniques of extracting, transforming and loading data from a myriad of operational databases into corporate data warehouses, as well means to ensure that decision making is based on clean and reliable information. Students will also develop skills for reporting the healthcare intelligence gathered.



																					OR																			

Healthcare Management Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
HCM 8110 - Organizations, Community & Global Health  (4)
This science of epidemiology is essential for projecting the population health needs, and appropriate allocation of public and private resources. This course focuses on the utilization of epidemiologic studies and techniques as a basis for organizational policy and administrative decision-making. Students will examine the connection between organizational leadership and social health. Students will create and recommend organizational strategies that enhance organizational, community, and global health.
HCM 8120 - Healthcare Policy, Regulations & Reform  (4)
This course will explore various aspects of corporate, state and federal policy making. Students will examine the impact of existing health policies on healthcare organizations, providers and patients. Students will develop skills to influence and change existing healthcare policies. Students will also create and propose a new healthcare policy.
HCM 8130 - Healthcare Economics, Resources & Finance  (4)
This course will examine the importance of resource and financial management in a healthcare organization. Students will determine the financial status of a healthcare organization and create strategic plans to sustain healthcare services. This course will also explore the various concepts driving healthcare economics. This course will also critique the use of organizational supplies, human resources, and technology.
HCM 8140 - Healthcare Quality, Process & Improvement  (4)
This course will examine various aspects of patient safety, quality improvement and risk management in healthcare. Students will compare and contrast several process improvement models with the goal of improving organizational efficiency, patient safety, and service quality. Students will also research governmental agencies driving quality improvement in healthcare organizations.
HCM 8250 - Business of Healthcare  (4)
Healthcare Leaders, more than ever, are facing challenging opportunities with the changing dynamics of the industry. During this course students will explore how executive-level leaders can manage complex health systems using strategic planning, risk management and innovative business practices.
HCM 8260 - Social Determinants of Health  (4)
The science of epidemiology and population health concepts are essential for addressing and projecting the health needs of communities and the allocation of public and private resources. This course focuses on the utilization of epidemiologic findings and population health data to support and aid health care policy development and administrative decision making. Students will be able to apply these concepts to analyze public health and population health data for epidemics, chronic health conditions, or diseases to develop data supported strategies as healthcare administrators.
HCM 8270 - Ethics and Technology in the Changing Healthcare Delivery Models  (4)
With the changing landscape of disease concerns the healthcare industry has had to pivot to use innovative ways to reach patients in uncertain times. This has raised many issues such as HIPAA, access to care, and healthcare workers competencies. This class will explore the new and changing landscape of the future delivery models and how to ethically address patient, family, healthcare professionals and government concerns.



																					OR																			

Human Resource Management Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
HRM 8240 - Foundations of Human Resource Management  (4)
Organizations across the globe are composed of groups of people working together to achieve goals that include organizational success, employee growth and contribution, and contribution to the larger community. The defining factor that differentiates the most successful companies from those that struggle to survive is the people who make up the employee base. While the Human Resources function has the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee issues and needs, individual managers and employees have direct responsibility and accountably for achieving sustained organizational success. Organizations that invest in their employees and develop workplace environments that encourage full employee engagement  are rewarded with a competitive advantage in the marketplace. This course provides students with an opportunity to learn the knowledge and skills needed to enhance the contributions of all employees in support of an organization's purpose. Student's research will analyze trends and issues influencing the development and application of these elements within contemporary organizations. Additionally, students will come to understand the benefits afforded to organizations that create, craft and maintain a rich, empowering culture.
HRM 8250 - Strategic Human Resource Management  (4)
In Strategic Human Resource Management, students will analyze workforce management processes in light of their strategic importance. This will include an examination of the relationships between traditional human resource functions and the various business functions so that efficiency and effectiveness are balanced and optimized. Students will also review these processes and relationships in both the domestic and global environments now and in the future. Further, students conduct research to explore trends within the discipline of Human Resource Management that have a positive impact upon employee engagement as well as the productivity and profitability of an organization.
HRM 8260 - Leading Organizational Transformation  (4)
In this course, students will evaluate the process of change as related to the principles and practices of various types of organizations. Students will conduct research into the area of total rewards to determine what influences are leading many organizations to implement progressive human resource practices. Students will apply this learning to examine change processes and techniques used to facilitate transformational change in order to enhance employee engagement and organizational success. Students will also understand the business case supporting why companies should invest in their employees and internal cultures, regardless of industry affiliation, company size and/or revenue generation and apply this research to examine the processes and techniques for facilitating transformational change.



																					OR																			

Instructional Design Leadership Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
IDL 8100 - Strategic Examination of Trends & Technology  (4)
Leaders of instruction and learning must stay abreast of continual changes in technology and leverage them to ensure the competitiveness and health of their organization. However, not all technologies and emerging processes are worth adopting. In this course, students will examine pedagogical trends and emerging technologies. Students will learn how to evaluate theories and incorporate designs, processes, and technologies in strategic and tactical decisions for instruction and learning in the organization.
IDL 8110 - Innovative Learning Environment Design  (4)
In this course, students will be exposed to new and innovative approaches for designing effective learning and instruction. This course will equip students with knowledge of applicable frameworks and strategies for implementation at the organizational level. Students will review learning environments such as e-learning, blended and hybrid learning, mobile learning, game-based learning, and informal and social learning, to determine the appropriate learning environment based on the learning and training needs of an organization.
IDL 8120 - Strategic Assessment & Decision Making  (4)
Today's researchers, leaders and managers in the instructional design field must be able to use data to make decisions, as well as to influence others in their organizations. In this course, students will learn how to apply relevant tools, techniques, theories, and principles of strategic assessment and decision-making to address the learning and performance needs to continuous improvement for learning problems or a learning organization.
IDL 8130 - Organizational Learning & Knowledge Management  (4)
Learning and knowledge management is crucial to the success of organizations. In this course, students will go beyond the design of learning environments and acquire skills to lead and manage the learning organization at a strategic level. Students will be able to recognize and meet the evolving learning needs of an organization within the framework of the organization's strategic goals. Multicultural awareness and how to lead multi-functional and cross-cultural instructional design teams and projects will also be addressed in this course.
IDL 8140 - Instructional Design Leadership Coaching and Consulting  (4)
In this course, you will learn leadership, coaching, and consulting theories, specifically for leading in the instructional design and training industries.  You will learn to identify the knowledge, skills, and qualities needed in your development to become a successful instructional design leader. Toward this end, you will develop a personal instructional design leadership philosophy and plan.


IDL 8150 - Curriculum Design, Development & Evaluation  (4)
This course examines the theoretical framework and practice of curriculum design, development, and evaluation in educational settings. Students will learn the theories that are being used to guide curriculum design in educational settings.  Students will apply those theories and processes in creating a curriculum and planning teaching & learning activities accordingly. 



																					OR																			

Information Technology Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
ITEC 8240 - IT Management and Strategy  (4)
This course critically analyzes the current state of IT strategy practices and demonstrates how an IT strategy serves as a strong foundation for competitive IT management. Several tools and methods are synthesized to assess internal and external environments for formulating a strategy, execute a strategy based on environmental factors, and improve a strategy. The course brings the current academic and business literature to the class. It examines emerging IT strategy and management issues such as hyper-automation, AI, cybersecurity mesh, anywhere operations, and the internet of behaviors. 
ITEC 8250 - IT Policy and Governance  (4)
This course aims to improve critical thinking and decision-making skills in the IT policy and governance field. The course brings forth today's complex and cutting-edge computing environment by taking threats, vulnerabilities, and cyber controls into account. Course provokes the questions of how the GRC (Governance, Risk Management, Compliance) practices should be applied in today's complex IT environments to make the most out of the cutting-edge technology and how critical assets should be protected from adversarial actions of advanced persistent threats. The course brings various essential processes and services to the table, including but not limited to supply chain risks, innovation, and resilience. Research papers and discussion assignments help students obtain pertinent information and improve research & academic writing skills within the field.
ITEC 8260 - IT Vision and Leadership  (4)
This course aims to improve critical thinking and decision-making skills while building your capabilities as an IT leader. The course helps you build a strong foundation on how to internally and externally lead others in a complex IT environment. This course will challenge you to create a leadership style that will bring the best out of people and yourself. Research papers and discussion assignments help students obtain pertinent information and improve research & academic writing skills within the field.



																					OR																			

Management Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
MGMT 8145 - Organizational Behavior, Culture & Effectiveness  (4)
This course is an advanced research seminar in the field of organizational culture and behavior. The seminar allows you to begin the process of substantive academic research and formal inquiry into these important theories and the implications of these for managers. The seminar will require the synthesis of critical thinking, analysis, research writing and evaluation. Students will develop a key deliverable that involves a research proposal in the fields of organizational culture and behavior and then conduct substantive research into the literature developed by others. The final project in the seminar is the development of a research ready proposal utilizing at minimum one research methodology.
MGMT 8150 - Organizational Leadership  (4)
This course addresses historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs. An emphasis will be on the application and assessment of transformational, servant and authentic leadership theories for us by both leaders and followers in 21st century business and academic settings. The course will challenge students to assess their own leadership strengths and weaknesses and produce an in-depth plan of action to develop and refine leadership competencies. Students will conduct substantive scholarly research to address and capture relevant and cutting edge leadership theoretical work for application in course assignments.
MGMT 8155 - Org Sys Perspect Theory & Application  (4)
Organizational Systems Perspectives Theory and Applications. This course focuses on the theory and practice of organizations as open and adaptive systems. Students will address the implications of systems theory for organizational sense-making, learning, innovation and transformation. The complexity of organizations as integrated participants in while systems will be addressed through research and presentations.
MGMT 8175 - Change Mgmt & Organizational Development  (4)
This course focuses on research and evaluation of the key theoretical concepts and practices central to the leading of organizational change initiatives. Students will evaluate real-world situations, cases and scenarios in order to recommend and justify theoretically-based change management practices to ensure ongoing organizational acceptance and effectiveness of these programs. Students will conduct scholarly research to explore, evaluate and interpret state-of0the-art change concepts for their viability in today's organizations. Students will assess the role of change agents as key players in the overall change process.
MGMT 8240 - Development of Management Theory Practice  (4)
The primary objective of this course is to provide a substantive overview of the development of management theory and its applications through the 20th century to date. Managerial concepts and constructs will be researched and applied in a scholar to practitioner modality. The course will focus on the evolution of management thought and the implications of its development for modern managers and leaders.
MGMT 8260 - Strategic Thinking, Dec. Making/Innov.  (4)
Innovation enables organizational growth and sustainability. However, for companies to remain competitive, leaders must understand the theories, models, and strategies framing innovation applying relevant concepts and practice to business development, customer satisfaction, and market acquisition.  
Conceptually, innovation, defined and applied in organizations, has morphed over the last three decades. However, the 21st-century global business environment offers an opportunity to rethink, even reimage innovation and its application to the emerging digital defined markets and workplaces. While innovation is evolutionally, even revolutionary relative to an organization's purpose, product, and processes, leadership should explore contemporary knowledge and skills associated with innovation determining if cultivating cultures of innovation, is essential to achieving organizational goals.  

MGMT 8265 - Organizational Performance Analysis  (4)
This course addresses a multi-prong approach to manage, lead and assess overall organizational performance in achieving tactical and strategic goals. Metrics including: shareholder value, the balanced scorecard, risk management, system alignment, human resource management, and organizational learning are addressed in this course. Also the application of research on organizational performance theories are incorporated in the course.
MGMT 8270 - Ethics & Social Responsibility  (4)
This course focuses on the evaluation and analysis of key ethical decision-making theories and constructs and their direct application and integration in 21st century organizational practices. The role of corporate social responsibility will be explored by assessing the role of organizational leaders and stakeholders with improving the quality of life for individuals and the community.



																					OR																			

Marketing Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
MKTG 8240 - Contemporary Issues in Marketing Management  (4)
This course is an advanced research seminar in contemporary marketing management. The seminar relies on critical inquiry and analysis as the foundation for substantive academic research involving current marketing issues that shape and are shaped by society. Upon successful completion of this course, students will have completed a comprehensive research study proposal.
MKTG 8250 - Consumer & Behavioral Research  (4)
This course is an advanced seminar in consumer behavior and market-driven applied research. Readings and assignments will synthesize prior knowledge of consumer behavior, research methodologies, methods, and theories with critical analyses of how these are used to inform marketing decision-making. Upon successful completion of this course, students will have developed a plan to conduct and analyze a research study.
MKTG 8260 - Marketing Quantitative & Qualitative Analysis  (4)
This course is an advanced seminar in the use of quantitative and qualitative data in the marketing process. Upon successful completion of this seminar, students will have an understanding of how quantitative and qualitative analyses are used by marketing academicians and practitioners for academic and applied research, assessment, and decision- making.



																					OR																			

Methodology Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
MTHD 8020 - Advanced Quantitative Research & Design  (3)
This is an advanced course in statistics that covers analyses used in multivariate statistical techniques. The course is designed to broaden and deepen learners understanding of advanced statistics in multivariate techniques. As such, several multivariate techniques are covered, including their appropriateness to given situations, analysis, and interpretation. The emphasis of the course is on practical application of concepts learnt to given research problems and/or opportunities. The course is developed to balance theory and application and provides numerous opportunities for application to practical problems. Learners also complete a draft research proposal integrating sound research plans and procedures.
MTHD 8022 - Advanced Qualitative Research & Design  (3)
The advanced qualitative research course builds on the knowledge and skills students acquire in MTHD 803 and MTHD 804. This course leads students on an in depth treatment of qualitative research methodology, exploring its theoretical underpinnings and associated methods for design, data collection, interpretation, and reporting of results. Ethics are emphasized for each stage of research. This course will also guide students to develop the methodology and data analysis for their dissertation proposal and research.
MTHD 8024 - Advanced Mixed Methods Research & Design  (3)
Through this course, students will familiarize with mixed-methods research and design.  They will gain knowledge on the four different types of mixed-methods: triangulation design, embedded design, explanatory design, and exploratory design. Students will learn how to conceptualize their own study in terms of these different design types.  They will gain hands-on experience on how to formulate a research question fitted for a mixed-methods design, collect some data, and analyze it.  They will discuss and learn about challenges and advantages of mixed-methods designs. At the end of this course students will be able to work on their dissertation proposal.



																					OR																			

Public Administration Focus:

At least 8 credits from the following courses:
PUAD 8240 - Cross-Sector Collaboration  (4)
This course focuses on theories and practices for leading cross-sector collaborations to accomplish public policy goals and objectives of mission-driven organizations. Students evaluate different collaborative approaches for delivering government and nonprofit services and assess the risks and benefits of engaging in cross-sector collaborations. Students learn analytical approaches, principled negotiation skills, and best practices for initiating and managing effective cross-sector collaborations.
PUAD 8250 - Innovations in Service Delivery and Stakeholder Engagement  (4)
The course examines the latest technologies that can be used to improve service delivery, engage stakeholders, and solve problems. Students learn the technologies and best practices for using web-based applications, e-commerce solutions, geographic information systems, crowd-sourcing, social media and other e-tools to make government and nonprofit organizations more efficient and effective. Ethical, legal, and implementation, aspects of these approaches are assessed.
PUAD 8260 - Program Evaluation and Policy Analysis  (4)
This course examines concepts, tools, and techniques for evaluating government policies, philanthropic, and social programs to assess the performance of mission-driven organizations. The course focuses on evaluating different approaches to program evaluation and applying methods for performance evaluation, including needs assessments, logic models, evaluation designs, quantitative and qualitative evaluation techniques, ethics, and reporting.















Franklin University’s No-Fear DissertationⓇ is designed to minimize the stress, isolation and anxiety that often accompany the dissertation process. Through Franklin’s supportive approach, doctoral students gain the confidence needed to successfully complete their doctorates through curricular and co-curricular experiences designed to build necessary research and writing skills, as well as 360-degree support from faculty, staff and peers. 




Learn More










Free Guide: How to Complete Your Doctoral JourneyDiscover common pitfalls and the 5 key metrics that will help you finish your doctorate degree.Download Now >







Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





PK-12 Educational Leadership



Higher Education Leadership



Organizational Leadership





Learn More







  Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership-Organizational Leadership Focus Program Details






			
  Tuition Cost

			




2024 - 2025 TuitionCost Per CreditStandard Tuition$748Current Service Members$636International students$899




Other Fees and ChargesCostApplication fee (non-refundable)$50Nursing programs feesVaries by programGraduation application fee (non-refundable, non-transferable)$150Graduation application late fee (non-refundable, non-transferable) $100Late payment fee for deferred tuition reimbursement plan$100Returned check processing fee$25E-Textbook Optional ChargesVaries by course








			
  Program Learning Outcomes 

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership matrix.






			
  Admission Requirements - General Doctorate

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.A completed master’s degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization. Master’s degree cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned lower than a 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned master’s degree can petition for admission to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a doctoral program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. If a student is admitted as a result of the petition, the student will need to obtain a “B” average (3.0 GPA) during the first doctoral-level course (ENG 800) of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Degree Requirements

			




To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.
Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.
Earn in residence at Franklin University at least 34 of the 58 required credits. According to the Ohio Department of Higher Education, to earn a doctorate degree, students must have completed a minimum of 90 semester credit hours above the bachelor’s degree. Students requiring additional credit hours to meet this minimum will take GRAD 900 Advanced Integrative Research.
Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees.
Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.







Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


David Brazer
Brazer Education Consulting LLC
Principal Consultant


Stephen Bressett
US Air Force
Major


Adrienne Carr
Worthington City Schools
Vice Principal


Andre'a Dorsey
University of the Virgin Islands
Visiting Asst. Prof. of Education


Philip Griswold
M.L. Fulton Teachers College - Arizona State University
Faculty Associate, Retired


John Kellogg
Educational Service Center of Central Ohio



Louis Kramer
London City Schools
Superintendent


Dione Somerville
Owens Community College
President


Chris Spradlin
Edison State Community College
President


Lucy Wakiaga
Tangaza University College
Associate Research Scientist


Chad Weirick
Ohio State Bar Association
Asst. Dir. Web + Cont. Ed.


Tommy Wells
Bellarmine University
Assistant Professor of Education











Request Free Information!Want to learn more about Franklin University? Complete the simple form - it just takes a minute!Invest in yourself by finishing your degree.Take advantage of flexible courses that fit your busy schedule.Finish faster. Save more. Franklin fits your life.Get in-demand knowledge that helps Franklin grads stand out with top employers.Request InformationWhat type of program are you seeking?-- Select Program Type --AssociateBachelor'sCombined Bachelor's & Master'sMaster'sCertificateDoctorateNon-Degree SeekingPost BaccalaureateCollege Credit Plus/Pre-College (HS Student)What is your program of interest?-- Select Program --Microcredential-- Select Microcredential --SpecializationNoneDo you have an associate degree or diploma in nursing?-- Select Status --YesNoNursing License Status-- Select Status --I have a current RN licenseMy license is pendingMy license is suspended or expiredI do not have an RN license
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required for this program.  Please resolve the issue with your license and return to inquire at that time.  In the interim, we welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			
				A clear and unencumbered nursing license is required to enter this program.  We welcome you to select an alternate academic program.
			When would you like to start classes?What is your highest level of education?-- Select Highest Education --Currently pursuing a high school diploma or GEDHave a high school diploma or GEDHave or currently pursuing Associate'sCurrently pursuing Bachelor's at an institution other than FranklinHave Bachelor'sHave or currently pursuing Master'sHave or currently pursuing DoctorateWhere did you receive (or are currently pursuing) your Associate's Degree?-- Select Country --My country is not listed"
								AlbaniaAlgeriaAnguillaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBermudaBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBulgariaBurkina FasoCameroonCanadaChinaColombiaCongoCroatiaCubaCuracaoDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDominicaDominican RepublicEcuadorEgyptEnglandEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFranceGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGrenadaGuatemalaGuinea, West AfricaGuyanaHaitiHungaryIndiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJordanKenyaKyrgyzstanLebanonLesothoLiberiaLithuaniaLuxembourgMacedoniaMalawiMalaysiaMaltaMauritaniaMexicoMoldovaMongoliaMontserratNamibia, AfricaNepalNetherlandsNew ZealandNigeriaNorwayOmanPakistanPalestinePanamaPeruPhilippinesPolandPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSingaporeSlovakiaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaSpainSt. LuciaSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TanzaniaThailandTogoTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurks and Caicos IslandsUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUzbekistanVenezuelaVietnamYemenZambiaZimbabwe-- Select State ---- Select City ---- Select Institution --First NameLast NamePrimary EmailPrimary PhoneSelect the state where you live-- Select State --AlabamaAlaskaAmerican SamoaArizonaArkansasArmed Forces AmericaCaliforniaColoradoConnecticutDelawareDistrict Of ColumbiaFederated States of MicronesiaFloridaGeorgiaGuamHawaiiIdahoIllinoisIndianaIowaKansasKentuckyLouisianaMaineMarshall IslandsMarylandMassachusettsMichiganMinnesotaMississippiMissouriMontanaNebraskaNevadaNew HampshireNew JerseyNew MexicoNew YorkNorth CarolinaNorth DakotaNorthern Mariana IslandsOhioOklahomaOregonPalauPennsylvaniaPuerto RicoRhode IslandSouth CarolinaSouth DakotaTennesseeTexasUtahVermontVirgin IslandsVirginiaWashingtonWest VirginiaWisconsinWyomingZip CodeI do not live in the U.S.Where is your country of citizenship?-- Select Country --AfghanistanAland IslandsAlbaniaAlgeriaAmerican SamoaAmerican Samoa(Western Samoa)American Virgin IslandsAndorraAngolaAnguillaAntarticaAntigua and BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaArubaAshmore and Cartier IslandsAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBahamasBahrainBamakoBandungBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBermudaBhutanBoliviaBosnia and HerzegovinaBotswanaBouvet IslandBrazilBritish Indian Ocean TerritoryBritish Virgin IslandsBrunei DarussalamBulgariaBurkina FasoBurmaBurundiCambodiaCameroonCanadaCape VerdeCayman IslandsCentral African RepublicChadChileChinaChristmas IslandCocos (Keeling) IslandsColombiaComorosCongoCook IslandsCosta RicaCote D'Ivoire (Ivory Coast)CroatiaCubaCuracaoCzech RepublicDemocratic Republic of CongoDenmarkDjibouti - RddDominicaDominican RepublicEast TimorEcuadorEgyptEl SalvadorEnglandEquatorial GuineaEritreaEstoniaEthiopiaFalkland IslandsFaroe IslandsFiji IslandsFinlandFranceFrench GuianaFrench PolynesiaFrench Southern TerritoriesGabonGambiaGermanyGhanaGibraltarGreat BritainGreeceGreenlandGrenadaGuadeloupeGuamGuatemalaGuernseyGuinea, West AfricaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHaitiHeard and McDonald IslandsHerzegovinaHoly See (Vatican City)HondurasHong KongHungaryIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsle of ManIsraelItalyIvory Coast (Cote d'Ivoire)JamaicaJapanJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKuwaitKyrgyzstanLaosLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMacaoMacedoniaMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall IslandsMartiniqueMauritaniaMauritiusMayotteMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMontserratMoroccoMozambiqueMyanmar (Burma)Namibia, AfricaNauruNavassa IslandNepalNetherlandsNetherlands AntillesNew CaledoniaNew Guinea (Papua New Guinea)New ZealandNicaraguaNigerNigeriaNiueNorfolk IslandNorth KoreaNorthern IrelandNorthern Mariana IslandsNorwayOmanPakistanPalau, W Caroline IslandsPalestinePanamaPapua New GuineaParaguayPersiaPeruPhilippinesPitcairnPolandPortugalPuerto RicoQatarRepublic of CyprusRepublic of GeorgiaRepublic of MoldovaReunionRomaniaRussiaRwandaSaint BarthelemySaint HelenaSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint MartinSaint Pierre and MiquelonSaint Vincent and GrenadinesSan MarinoSao Tome and PrincipeSaudi ArabiaScotlandSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra LeoneSingaporeSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth AmericaSouth KoreaSouth SudanSoviet UnionSpainSri LankaSt. KittsSt. LuciaSt. MaartenSt. Thomas, V.I.SudanSurinameSvalbard and Jan MayenSwazilandSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTaiwan, R.O.C.TajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoToklauTongaTrinidadTunisiaTurkeyTurkmenistanTurks and Caicos IslandsTuvaluUgandaUkraineUnited Arab EmiratesUnited KingdomUnited States of AmericaUnknownUruguayUzbekistanVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamWales U.K.Wallis and FutunaWest AfricaWest IndiesWestern SaharaYemenYugoslaviaZaire(Democratic Rep of CongoZambiaZimbabweAre you serving in the U.S. military, a veteran, or a spouse or dependent of a servicemember?YesNoImmigration StatusI am a U.S. immigrant, such as a Permanent Resident, Asylee, Refugee, or undocumented immigrantI am a non-immigrant to the U.S., such as an F-1 Student, H-1B Worker, H-4 Dependent, J-1 Visitor, or B-1/B-2 TouristI plan to come to the U.S. as an international studentI plan to study online from outside the U.S. 
				Step 1 of 3Get Started >< BackNext >Submit
				In submitting my contact information, I understand that I will receive phone calls, text messages and email about attending Franklin University. I may opt out of these communications at any time.
				
				Your privacy is important to us. Privacy PolicyLoading...We're SorryThere was an unexpected error with the form (your web browser was unable to retrieve some required data from our servers).  This kind of error may occur if you have temporarily lost your internet connection.  If you're able to verify that your internet connection is stable and the error persists, the Franklin University Help Desk is available to assist you at helpdesk@franklin.edu, 614.947.6682 (local), or 1.866.435.7006 (toll free).Just a moment while we process your submission.







Employment Outlook





10%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Education are expected to increase by 10%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Training and Development Managers
$125,050
27,958
11%




Training and Development Managers
									Median Salary: $125,050

									Job Postings: 27,958

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionTraining and Development Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the training and development activities and staff of an organization.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsLearning and Development Managers4,12315%Training Managers3,13911%Managers-in-Training2,71110%Training and Development Managers2,2318%Directors of Staff Development5,44920%Onboarding Managers1,0154%Operations Managers9143%Directors of Training9333%Directors of Workforce Development6712%Learning Managers4852%Learning Program Managers5202%Learning and Development Leads5092%Assistant Event Managers6863%Program Managers6422%Directors of Learning and Development7043%Directors of Leadership Development6762%Directors of Leadership7833%Training Program Managers5222%Field Training Managers7253%Learning and Development Program Managers5202%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management7,15619%Learning Management Systems5,43615%Marketing4,93613%Instructional Design4,29012%Adult Education3,98711%Curriculum Development3,2769%Operations Management2,5777%Organizational Development2,5307%Continuous Improvement Process2,4907%Selling Techniques2,1756%Performance Appraisal2,0976%Adult Learning Principles2,0826%Auditing1,9695%Finance1,8685%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management1,7905%Performance Management1,7325%Process Improvement1,7235%Change Management1,6855%Data Analysis1,6825%Learning Strategies1,6714%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryFederal Government, Military16%Management of Companies and Enterprises13%Education and Hospitals (State Government)3%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals3%Other59% 
Education Administrators, Postsecondary
$102,606
50,599
8%




Education Administrators, Postsecondary
									Median Salary: $102,606

									Job Postings: 50,599

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionEducation Administrators, Postsecondary plan, direct, or coordinate student instruction, administration, and services, as well as other research and educational activities, at postsecondary institutions, including universities, colleges, and junior and community colleges.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsDirectors of Admissions11,55123%Admissions Representatives6,43113%Deans of Students4,2298%Directors of Financial Aid3,7768%Registration Specialists3,0836%Registration Representatives3,0816%Registrars2,1944%Admissions Coordinators1,9244%Admitting Representatives3,2767%Directors of Alumni Engagement1,4413%Education Coordinators1,2863%Campus Directors1,0922%Directors of Student Engagement9882%Directors of Student Success9992%Deans of Arts and Sciences1,0302%Admissions Associates1,0332%Admissions Assistants9632%Athletic Directors8212%Directors of Student Services7612%Admissions Managers6401%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsStudent Services19,80322%Marketing15,04817%Project Management7,1568%Higher Education7,0628%Academic Affairs6,7517%Enrollment Management6,0507%Administrative Support5,6266%Registration5,6036%Customer Relationship Management5,5326%Auditing5,4256%Fundraising5,1936%Curriculum Development5,0286%Student Information Systems4,8255%Student Engagement4,7665%Data Analysis4,5555%Data Entry4,5185%Student Recruitment4,5045%Billing4,4115%Statistics4,3945%Finance4,2295%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryEducation and Hospitals (State Government)44%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools42%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)10%Technical and Trade Schools2%Junior Colleges1%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals1%Other1% 
Postsecondary Teachers
$83,637
105,818
11%




Postsecondary Teachers
									Median Salary: $83,637

									Job Postings: 105,818

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionPostsecondary Teachers aggregate category equivalent to SOC group 25-1000. Teach undergraduate and graduate level courses in their specialized field of study. Include both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of both teaching and research. Alternate titles: College Professor.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsAdjunct Faculties20,60720%Adjunct Instructors7,0397%Assistant Professors10,88310%Assistant/Associate Professors6,6426%Nursing Faculties8,0618%Non-Tenure Track Faculties6,5336%Assistant/Associate/Full Professors4,8425%Nursing Instructors5,1435%Tenure-Track Assistant/Associate Professors3,3813%Assistant Professors of Psychology3,3033%Biology Adjunct Faculties3,0013%Nursing Adjunct Faculties2,9523%Associate Professors3,5723%Driving Instructors3,8984%University Professors1,9332%Tenure-Track Professors2,8743%Adjuncts2,1862%Assistant Professors of Computer Science2,7673%Lecturers3,6343%Open Rank Faculties2,5672%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsCurriculum Development26,98012%Nursing21,39010%Pedagogy15,4737%Learning Management Systems14,7247%Biology13,5246%Psychology12,4256%Computer Science12,3226%Syllabus Development11,8475%Statistics11,3765%Student Engagement11,2675%Online Teaching11,2305%Social Sciences10,8415%Lecturing10,4215%Health Sciences9,6814%Educational Assessment9,3074%Academic Advising9,1714%Distance Learning9,1704%Marketing9,0674%Clinical Experience8,6284%Talent Management8,4794%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryEducation and Hospitals (State Government)44%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools36%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)15%Technical and Trade Schools3%Junior Colleges1%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals1%Other2% 
Teachers and Instructors, All Other
$64,390
0
7%




Teachers and Instructors, All Other
									Median Salary: $64,390

									Job Postings: 0

									Projected Growth: 7%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionTeachers and Instructors, All Other all teachers and instructors not listed separately.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSkillJob Postings% of Total Postings Industry% of Occupation in IndustryEducation and Hospitals (Local Government)30%Elementary and Secondary Schools13%Federal Government, Civilian12%Federal Government, Military8%Other Schools and Instruction8%Educational Support Services5%Other24% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.




Frequently Asked Questions





		How long does it take to earn an Organizational Leadership Ed.D.?
		


At Franklin, you could complete your online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership degree -- including your dissertation -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about transferring up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start my Ed.D. Organizational Leadership degree program?
		


When you start your Organizational Leadership Ed.D. at Franklin, you’re also starting to transform your career path. Like our other online doctoral programs, Franklin's Ed.D. Organizational Leadership doctorate starts every January, April, August and September.




		How much does an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership cost?
		


Investing in your future is affordable at Franklin University because you get a quality education at a competitive cost. Unlike per-year or per-term college expenses, our per-credit-hour tuition rates make it easy to calculate the cost of earning your doctorate. Franklin’s 2023-2024 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Get a personalized cost estimate of your Ed.D. Organizational Leadership degree with Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator. Questions? Ask our helpful staff about financial aid programs and tuition financing options.




		 What is an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


An Ed.D. Organizational Leadership doctorate draws on best practices in leadership to build your competency as an effective leader who is well-prepared to solve real-world problems and drive organizational change. Franklin’s Organizational Leadership Ed.D. is ideal for current and aspiring leaders who are ready to make an impact in their workplace.




		What can you do with an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership, you’ll be prepared to lead in a broad range of disciplines, including for-profit, nonprofit, government and military. From school district superintendents and university presidents to CEOs and community health directors, complex organizations are looking for leaders who hold the skills and qualifications of an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership.




		Why get an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


Earning an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership is the pinnacle of career credentials to support your professional ambitions. The Organizational Leadership Ed.D. is designed to equip and empower you to become a dynamic leader who can translate the complexities of an organization or institution into opportunities for growth and success.




		What makes Franklin’s Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree special?
		


As a leader in practical application education, an Ed.D.in Organizational Leadership from Franklin University equips you with the decision-making and ethical leadership skills needed to develop and implement strategies that solve complex issues. And because Franklin uses an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on finishing it -- all while you earn your degree.


See All >









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog