URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/education-programs/med-k-12-building-leadership
M.Ed. in Building Level Leadership K-12 | 12-Month Program | Franklin.edu



















M.Ed. in Educational Leadership K-12 Building Level Leadership Focus
 

  

32Credit Hours12Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              Education
                /  
                                              M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership
                          

  Prepare for K-12 building-level leadership with an online master of education 


Broaden your impact on student success and well-being with a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership. In this program, aligned with standards set forth by the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program, you’ll learn how effective leadership contributes to student achievement. Through Franklin’s streamlined 12-month, 100% online program, you’ll gain the knowledge necessary to help you excel as an effective building-level leader in K-12 education.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  12-Month Completion
Earn your M.Ed. and qualify for leadership roles faster.



  $2,000 Smart Start Scholarship
New students in the M.Ed. program qualify for an automatic $2,000 scholarship.



  Tailored to Fit Your Life
Focus on one class at a time.



  Real-World Practitioners
Learn from experienced, in-field education professionals.



  100% Online Coursework
Balance earning your degree with other work-life commitments.










  Program Overview





  Gain industry-standard knowledge and become an effective leader in education

You’ll tackle key concepts in education leadership through coursework that’s aligned to the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program (NELP) Recognition Standards. These standards guide leaders in their work to create environments conducive to student learning and achievement by supporting teachers, setting policies, creating systems and allocating resources. You’ll learn what constitutes an education leader, their key responsibilities, and the significance of constraints like ethics, laws and values.Leverage stakeholder involvement and garner community supportEvery school is a microcosm of its community. Therefore, the impact of an educational leader extends beyond the school’s walls. At the same time, what’s happening in homes and families influences learning in the school. Your success as a leader is dependent on your ability to engage with the community as a partner toward shared goals.Building on Epstein’s theory on the interdependence of school, family and community, you’ll understand the significance of creating a culture of partnership in your school. Through the Epstein Framework, you’ll be introduced to the six types of involvement that inform the systematic creation of a school-based plan for strategic partnership and initiatives, or to assist in the evaluation of an existing engagement plan.Master strategic concepts for creating inclusive classroomsYour focus area course provides the opportunity to dive into the curriculum and intervention strategies that help students excel in supportive, culturally responsive and inclusive cultures within the K-12 environment. While the course provides insight to benefit the teacher’s perspective, you’ll also gain understanding of regulatory requirements, design considerations and operational implementation factors within elementary, middle and high school contexts to inform the administrative aspects of inclusive education. You’ll also be equipped to analyze the school environment and recommend necessary support services and effective instruction and assessment methods.Earn a contemporary master of education degree Education is a dynamic industry – preparing students for changes in society, the workforce and technology – is a challenge in itself. Doing it with a reliance on theory is impossible.At Franklin, your instructor-led classes provide access to practitioners who are in-field and in-touch with the current thinking and the impact of current legislation on PK-12 education. Your capstone is an action research project, in which you’ll be required to design a “school improvement” project grounded in your current professional environment that addresses leadership, management and educational issues through the lens of your master’s-level studies. Read more >






  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 









  Your Best Value Master of Education




Choose Franklin's Master of Education and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget.







Competitive Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Competitive tuition rates provide value and quality.







Smart Start Scholarship


$21,440
Total Tuition  
$2,000
Automatic Scholarship 
$19,440
Tuition with Scholarship 

Franklin’s competitive tuition rate and our Smart Start Scholarship puts your degree within reach.






Take One Class at a Time




Balance your education with your life.







Finish Fast


12
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner.







Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×








  Courses & Curriculum





				Major Area Required			




EDUC 610 - Principles of Educational Leadership (4)
This course focuses on the development of the skills and knowledge required to meet the day-to-day decisions and problems that confront educational leaders to include relationships among local, state, and federal agencies as well as families, community members, and school personnel.


EDUC 611 - Leadership Theory (4)
This course is an introduction to school administration, including the theoretical and historical development of school administration as an academic discipline, an examination of organizational behavior and theory, an exploration of political and legal structures which impact schools and school administration, and the development of the concepts and practices associated with successful leadership and decision making. The course will explore the challenge for both aspiring and veteran school leaders to create a community of shared commitment, responsibility, and accountability designed to serve the learning of the adults and the children in the school?a sustainable, professional learning community.


EDUC 612 - Ethics, Laws, and Values in Education (4)
This course explores human ethics within educational foundations. It assists learners to reflect on their own experiences to develop humane values of self-determination and self-realization, and social and individual empowerment. The course addresses the legal and political underpinnings of schooling in a globalizing and postmodern world, providing an overview of major issues in school law, to include U.S. Supreme Court decisions as well as relevant state and federal lower court opinions.


EDUC 614 - Educational Research & Program Evaluation (4)
This course prepares learners to gain an introductory understanding of educational research methodologies as well as their impact on rigorous program evaluation. This course examines the ethical considerations when conducting educational research, how previous peer-reviewed studies can inform future programmatic action, and the role that theoretical and empirical research should shape a school leader?s selected methodology. 


EDUC 615 - Critical Issues in Education & Community Relations (4)
This course examines current and emerging issues and trends impacting education: inquiring into demographic shifts; globalization; technology, data-based decision-making; inclusion of diverse learners in American schools; and recent research on student achievement when influenced by race, gender, and poverty. Additionally, the issues and responsibilities related to understanding, responding to, and influencing the larger political, social, economic, legal and cultural contexts as they impact the school community.


EDUC 617 - Capstone (4)
This capstone course is designed to complete an action research project that positively impacts the educational environment, reflect on the impact and changes that result, and inform others about what has been learned through this process.





				Focus Area			



Higher Education Leadership:

EDUC 616 - Introduction to Student Affairs (4)
The purpose of this course is to provide a survey and overview of student affairs theory and practice. It introduces learners to the foundational philosophies of the profession, examines the integration of student affairs functions and administrators in higher education, explores the variety of roles student affairs professionals play on college campuses, and seeks to develop an understanding of institutional cultures and the professional's role within those cultures. These objectives will be explored within the context of examining the central role student affairs plays in helping students gain and articulate transferable skills gained through experiences outside of the classroom.
EDUC 625 - Curriculum Leadership in Higher Education (4)
This course will examine curriculum leadership in higher education. Students will learn foundations of curriculum in U.S. Colleges and Universities, curriculum design principles, frameworks, processes and curriculum mapping. Students will also learn the techniques for evaluating a curriculum and proper instructional alignment. 


																					OR																			
K-12 Building Level Leadership:

EDUC 618 - Strategies for Inclusive Classrooms (4)
This course covers curriculum and intervention strategies for working with children in a supportive, equitable, culturally responsive, and inclusive culture within the educational environment. Learners will use their observation, assessment and communication skills to meet the individualized needs of children in inclusive environments. Includes the role of the teacher as a professional working with families, collaboration with interdisciplinary teams, and cultural competence.
EDUC 613 - Leading Curricular & Instructional Alignment in K-12 Education (4)
This course will focus on the tools that educators need to achieve deep alignment. Effective curriculum design and deep alignment are critical factors in maximizing student achievement. The purpose of the course is to strengthen the knowledge and skills of learners as instructional designers and managers by evaluating models for managing curriculum as they identify and research current and emerging issues in curriculum.












  M.Ed. in Educational Leadership K-12 Building Level Leadership Focus Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.
Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.
Complete the residency requirement:
	
Master of Education students must earn at least 20 of the 32 required credits at Franklin University.


Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;
Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.

Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the M.Ed. in Educational Leadership matrix.










Ready to make a difference in education?Get a FREE action plan filled with resources and recommendations from those who are already there.I'm in - Show Me the Guide >







Employment Outlook





6%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Education are expected to increase by 6%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Education Administrators, Kindergarten through Secondary
$103,460
64,642
5%




Education Administrators, Kindergarten through Secondary
									Median Salary: $103,460

									Job Postings: 64,642

									Projected Growth: 5%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionEducation Administrators, Kindergarten through Secondary plan, direct, or coordinate the academic, administrative, or auxiliary activities of kindergarten, elementary, or secondary schools.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsAssistant Principals9,86715%Principals10,29216%High School Assistant Principals4,7957%School Principals3,0865%Elementary School Principals2,8955%Elementary Principals2,5334%Principal Engineers3,3975%Middle School Principals2,4854%Lead Teachers4,6747%High School Principals2,4654%Middle School Assistant Principals2,1343%Elementary Assistant Principals2,4474%Superintendents2,0573%Assistant Directors2,3134%Athletic Directors1,3612%Student Services Specialists2,1233%Teachers1,9813%Elementary School Assistant Principals1,3492%Assistant Superintendents1,1612%Student Success Coordinators1,2272%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsStudent Services8,90511%Special Education7,1799%Curriculum Development6,8638%Project Management5,2186%Lesson Planning4,3575%Data Analysis4,3405%Marketing4,3325%Classroom Management3,9515%Office Equipment3,7225%Continuous Improvement Process3,6955%Child Development3,5374%Educational Administration3,4924%Public Relations3,3154%Preschool Education3,2564%Individualized Education Programs (IEP)3,2294%Effective Communication3,1804%Accounting3,1234%Finance3,0894%Auditing3,0834%Student Information Systems3,0384%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryEducation and Hospitals (Local Government)75%Elementary and Secondary Schools22%Education and Hospitals (State Government)1%Religious Organizations1%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals1%Management of Companies and Enterprises0%Other1% 
Education Administrators, All Other
$88,462
0
8%




Education Administrators, All Other
									Median Salary: $88,462

									Job Postings: 0

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionEducation Administrators, All Other all education administrators not listed separately.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSkillJob Postings% of Total Postings Industry% of Occupation in IndustryOther Schools and Instruction16%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)15%Federal Government, Civilian13%Educational Support Services11%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools8%Technical and Trade Schools5%Other33% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  K-12 Building Level Leadership Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Curriculum Development + Evaluation

			



Direct and monitor the development, implementation, evaluation, revision, quality and appropriateness of curriculum, instruction and assessment documents and materials.
Demonstrate the capacity to evaluate, develop and implement coherent curriculum, instruction, data system, support and assessments that promote student and adult success and well-being.
Develop and manage a system of assessing and reporting teacher progress, and tracking classroom and student growth and development.
Lead administrative tasks related to school improvement and school achievement.







			
  Ethics, Laws and Values

			



Compile data from a variety of sources to analyze issues, ensuring compliance with organizational policies and procedures, and/or monitoring program components.
Manage assigned programs to ensure compliance with legal, financial and district requirements.
Serve as the Deputy Title IX Coordinator for student complaints; receive student complaints of discrimination and harassment; collaborate to implement related training to the campus.
	 







			
  Inclusive Classroom 

			



Demonstrate the capacity to engage families, community, and school personnel to strengthen student learning, support improvements, and advocate for the needs of the school and community.
Work to identify and mitigate barriers and structural biases that prevent under-represented students from succeeding.
Demonstrate the capacity to develop and maintain a supportive, equitable, culturally responsive and inclusive culture within the educational organization.
	 







			
  Leadership 

			



Lead the development, delivery, and evaluation of teacher preparation and professional learning, including new teacher orientation and coaching.
Lead teams responsible for instructional support across K-12.
Professionally develop the instructional support team members into highly effective and results-oriented instructional leaders.
Demonstrate the capacity to build the educational organization’s professional capacity, engage staff in the development of a collaborative professional culture, and improve systems of supervision, evaluation, support, and professional learning that promote student and adult success and well-being.
	 









  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)






		What is a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership is an applied master’s-level education degree focused on leadership at the K-12 building level.




		What can you do with a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


With a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership, you can qualify for positions like curriculum director, athletic director or special education director.




		Why get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership enables you to broaden your impact on student success and well-being through leadership roles at the building or district level.




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership is a 12-month, 100% online program that is aligned with standards set forth by the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program. In Franklin’s streamlined, theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.Ed. in Education Leadership degree in as few as 12 months.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Best Doctorate Degrees For 4 In-Demand Industries



What Exactly is an Ed.D. Degree?



The Doctorate in Education: Is it Worth It?



What Types of Doctorates Are Available?



Ed.D. Completion Programs: Finishing Your Doctorate in Education










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog