URL: https://www.franklin.edu/faqs
FAQs | Franklin University





















FAQs

                                  Home
                          













A.A.S. Business Administration  


		What is an A.A.S. in Business Administration degree?
		


The A.A.S. in Business Administration is a two-year undergraduate degree program designed to help you begin or advance your career in any field or industry. Franklin’s transfer-friendly Business Administration A.A.S. is ideally suited for students with prior learning through professional training or previously earned coursework at a community or technical college.




		What can you do with an A.A.S. in Business Administration?
		


An A.A.S. in Business Administration from Franklin University prepares you to take on a variety of administrative and managerial positions including office manager, operations coordinator and customer services assistant director. Individuals with a Business Administration associate degree are also equipped to be sole proprietors of their own small businesses.




		Why get an A.A.S. Business Administration degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can help you start your career sooner than with a bachelor's degree - or even a more traditional associate program. Plus, an A.A.S. Business Administration from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition into several Franklin online bachelor’s degree programs, so you can continue on your academic journey while building your résumé.




		What makes Franklin’s A.A.S. Business Administration unique?
		


Franklin’s A.A.S. Business Administration was designed to recognize and accept professional training, certificates and licenses for course credit toward degree requirements. Learners can maximize their work and life experience to receive up to 30 credits from prior learning, which is 50% of the total number of credits required for the degree.




		When can I start my A.A.S. Business Administration degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, and classes start every 6 weeks. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Administration A.A.S. cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		How long does it take to get an Associate of Applied Science in Business Administration?
		


It depends. Our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.A.S. Business Administration in as little as 24 months or leverage your previously completed coursework, professional training or certificates to finish faster. 






A.A.S. IT-Project Management - FAQs


		What is an A.A.S. in IT-Project Management degree?
		


The A.A.S. in IT-Project Management is a two-year undergraduate degree program designed to help you begin or advance your career in IT or business. Franklin’s transfer-friendly IT-Project Management A.A.S. is ideally suited for students with prior learning through professional training or previously earned coursework at a community or technical college.




		What can you do with an A.A.S. in IT-Project Management?
		


An A.A.S. in IT-Project Management from Franklin University can prepare you for immediate employment in a number of in-demand roles including IT specialist, technical support specialist, help desk specialist or network specialist. 




		Why get an A.A.S. IT-Project Management degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can help you start your career sooner than with a bachelor's degree - or even a more traditional associate program. Plus, an A.A.S. IT-Project Management from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition into several Franklin online bachelor’s degree programs, so you can continue on your academic journey while building your résumé. 




		What makes Franklin’s A.A.S. IT-Project Management unique?
		


Franklin’s A.A.S. IT-Project Management was designed to recognize and accept professional training, certificates and licenses for course credit toward degree requirements. Learners can maximize their work and life experience to receive up to 30 credits from prior learning, which is 50% of the total number of credits required for the degree.




		When can I start my A.A.S. IT-Project Management degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, and classes start every 6 weeks. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my IT-Project Management A.A.S. cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		How long does it take to get an Associate of Applied Science in IT-Project Management?
		


It depends. Our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.A.S. IT-Project Management in as little as 24 months or leverage your previously completed coursework, professional training or certificates to finish in as few as 8 months.






A.A.S. Public Safety - FAQs


		What is an A.A.S. in Public Safety degree?
		


The A.A.S. in Public Safety is a two-year undergraduate degree program designed to prepare individuals in law enforcement, criminal justice, fire safety, emergency medical services, corrections, or other public safety-related fields, for management and leadership roles.  Franklin’s transfer-friendly Public Safety A.A.S. is ideally suited for students with prior learning through professional training or previously earned coursework at a community or technical college.




		What can you do with an A.A.S. in Public Safety?
		


An A.A.S. in Public Safety from Franklin University prepares individuals in law enforcement, criminal justice, fire safety, emergency medical services, corrections, or other public safety-related fields, for management and leadership roles including police officer paramedic, firefighter or correctional officer. 




		 Why get an A.A.S. Public Safety degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can position you for advancement sooner than with a bachelor's degree - or even a more traditional associate program. Plus, an A.A.S. Public Safety from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition into several Franklin online bachelor’s degree programs, so you can continue on your academic journey while building your résumé. 




		 What makes Franklin’s A.A.S. Public Safety unique?
		


Franklin’s A.A.S. Public Safety was designed to recognize and accept police, corrections, paramedic and firefighter training for course credit toward degree requirements. Learners can maximize their work and life experience to receive up to 30 credits from prior learning, which is 50% of the total number of credits required for the degree. 




		When can I start my A.A.S. Public Safety degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, and classes start every 6 weeks. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Public Safety A.A.S. cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		How long does it take to get an Associate of Applied Science in Public Safety?
		


It depends. Our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.A.S. Public Safety in as little as 24 months or leverage your previously completed coursework, professional training or certificates to finish faster.






A.S. Accounting


		How long does it take to get an Accounting associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Accounting in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start an Accounting associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Accounting associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Accounting associate degree?
		




An associate of science degree program in Accounting is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Accounting, you'll learn fundamental principles in several of the major fields of accounting, including financial, managerial and individual income tax.




		What can you do with an Accounting associate degree?
		




With an A.S. Accounting from Franklin, you'll be prepared for an entry-level accounting career in private industry or with a government agency. Job titles for graduates include accounting technician, accounts receivable analyst, bookkeeper, tax preparer and more.




		Why get an Accounting associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program can help open you up to entry-level employment in the field of accounting. Plus, an A.S. Accounting from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Accounting program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Accounting associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in accounting. Besides adding hard skills to your résumé through foundational accounting principles, you'll also develop additional research and communication skills -- soft skills that are in high demand for today's (and tomorrow's) employers.






B.S. Accounting


		How long does it take to get a Accounting degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Accounting degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Accounting degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Accounting degree?
		




The bachelor of science in Accounting degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's B.S. Accounting, you'll acquire a solid background in financial reporting and analysis, managerial accounting and cost management, tax accounting, auditing and accounting ethics, as well as financial management.




		What can you do with a Accounting degree?
		




With a B.S. Accounting from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a variety of accounting-related careers, including tax accountant, auditor and budget analyst. And, if you choose to, you'll also have the educational background to begin preparing for professional certification, such as certified public accountant (CPA), certified management accountant (CMA) or certified internal auditor (CIA).




		Why get a Accounting degree?
		




When you graduate from Franklin's B.S. Accounting degree program, you'll be qualified for a variety of job titles, such as accountant, manager, credit analyst, tax preparer and consultant. In public accounting firms, our graduates have been known to fill positions in accounting, auditing and financial reporting. In government agencies, Franklin graduates have found employment with the Internal Revenue Service, as government accountants, and as local or state finance officials.




		What makes Franklin’s Accounting degree unique?
		




Franklin University’s B.S. Accounting degree program has an excellent reputation within the business community. That's because our curriculum focuses on the theories behind the practice as well as how to apply them in the real world. Perhaps that's why our graduates hold a variety of career positions in government, public accounting and private industry.






B.S. Applied Management


		How long does it take to get an Applied Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Applied Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you take online or onsite classes and choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor for the start date that's best for you.




		How much will my Applied Management degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Applied Management degree?
		


Franklin University's B.S. Applied Management is a four-year undergraduate degree program. You can start from scratch or build on a previously earned technical associate degree. Franklin University's B.S. Applied Management is transfer friendly and can accommodate up to 94 hours of transfer credit in more than 130 disciplines - including up to 32 hours of earned technical credits.




		What can you do with an Applied Management degree?
		




With a B.S. Applied Management from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared with the knowledge, skills and tools to excel in a supervisory or management role. Our online bachelor's degree program focuses on both foundational and functional competencies to better prepare you to become a strong leader.




		Why get an Applied Management degree?
		




When you graduate from Franklin's B.S. Applied Management degree program, you'll possess both the technical expertise in your field, as well as in-demand managerial skills to help take you to the next level of leadership.




		What makes Franklin’s Applied Management degree unique?
		


While transfer credit isn’t an admission requirement for Franklin’s program, you can take advantage of certifications, licensures, and on-the-job training and get up to 32 hours of technical credit toward you degree - an option many four-year universities don’t offer. That means you can get credit for what you already know -- and earn your degree even faster.






FAQs


		What is a FAFSA Submission Summary (FSS)?
		




The FSS summarizes the information provided on the FAFSA, including the SAI and Data Release Number (DRN). You will receive your FSS by email if you provided a valid e-mail address on the FAFSA. Look for the SAI in the upper right-hand portion of the electronic or paper version of the FSS.




		What is the Student Aid Index (SAI)?
		


The Student Aid Index (SAI) is an eligibility index number that your college's or career school's financial aid office uses to determine how much federal student aid you would receive if you attended the school.




		Where can I get assistance to complete the FAFSA?
		




You have three options for FAFSA assistance:

1. Real-time help from the Federal Student Aid Information Center (FSAIC) when completing the application online. Just click on the Contact Us tab.
2. Phone assistance by calling FSAIC at 1-800-4-FED-AID (TTY 1-800-730-8913).
3. In-person help from a Student Financial Services Counselor at Franklin. Please bring your FSA ID and application documentation, such as your federal tax returns.
Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.




		What is a Federal Student Aid (FSA) ID?
		




An FSA ID is a registered username and password for signing into certain Federal Student Aid websites, including Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®), StudentLoans.gov and My Federal Student Aid. Your FSA ID is used to electronically sign Federal Student Aid documents, access your personal records and make legally binding obligations. Please keep your information secure. Parents who are required to sign a child's FAFSA need their own FSA ID, however, the parent's ID can be used to sign more than one child's application.




		When do I need to complete my Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)?
		


To maximize your award, we recommend that you complete the FAFSA each year as soon as it becomes available. You will import your tax information from the year before the prior tax year to complete your FAFSA (2022 taxes for the 2024-25 FAFSA or 2023 taxes for the 2025-26 FAFSA). Although you can complete the FAFSA any time during the term, to be considered for maximum eligibility you must complete it before the posted deadlines.For 2025-26, the priority deadlines are:Summer Trimester: March 15, 2025Fall Trimester: June 15, 2025Spring Trimester: October 1, 2025Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.For more information, please visit Applying for Aid.






B.S. Adolescent to Young Adult Education


		What is a B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree?
		


A B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree prepares you to teach integrated language arts, math or social studies at the middle or high-school level (grades 7-12). 




		What can you do with a B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree?
		


A B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree prepares you to teach integrated language arts, math or social studies at the middle or high-school level (grades 7-12).




		What makes Franklin’s B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree unique?
		


Franklin’s Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree is a transfer-friendly path to an affordable pathway to a teaching career as an integrated language arts, math or social studies at the middle or high-school level (grades 7-12) in Ohio. With our low per credit hour rate, as well as free books and the elimination of placement fees for field experiences and student teaching, Franklin keeps the cost of a high-quality education degree within reach. 




		How long does it take to get a B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree?
		


The time requirement to complete Franklin's B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education varies based on transfer credit and intended licensure area. The program is individualized based on the students’ needs. The amount of time it takes to complete depends on how many of your previous courses transfer and how many courses you are able to take per term. Once your transcripts have been evaluated Franklin University will develop a suggested completion plan that will give you an approximate length of your program based upon our rotation. 




		When can I start a B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree?
		


The B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree can be started in fall or spring terms.
Adolescence to Young Adult Education courses are offered online. Most of the courses are 8-week courses, there are a few 12-week course options, and the final clinical student teaching courses are 16 weeks. Courses are offered based upon a set rotation to ensure that all prerequisites are fulfilled through the program. The majority of the courses are offered in the fall and spring terms, with a few courses being offered in the summer. 
Although all courses are online, you will be required to have some day time availability to complete 32 hours each semester of clinical field experience within a partner P-12 school district.




		How much will my B.S. Adolescence to Young Adult Education degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






B.S. Analytics-Applied Data Science Focus


		How long does it take to get an Analytics-Applied Data Science degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Data Science degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my degree in data science cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a data science bachelor’s degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's data science degree program (B.S. Analytics- with a focus in Applied Data Science), you'll learn about programming, cloud computing and data management. 




		What can you do with an online data science degree?
		


With an online data science degree (B.S. Analytics-Applied Data Science) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue a variety of jobs including data scientist, machine learning engineer and data engineer. 




		Why get a bachelor’s degree in data science?
		


When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Analytics-Applied Data Science degree, your proficiency in machine learning, SQL, data warehousing, cloud computing and database administration will boost your professional marketability in tech-driven industries.




		What makes Franklin’s data science bachelor’s degree unique?
		


Franklin University's data science bachelor’s degree program is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on hands-on technical skills, the B.S. Analytics-Applied Data Science provides students with the knowledge in programming, cloud computing and data management that prepares them to solve real-world challenges. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a data science bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults.






B.S. Analytics-Business Analytics Focus


		How long does it take to get a Business Analytics degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a degree in Business Analytics?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Analytics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a business analytics bachelor’s degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's data science degree program (B.S. Analytics- with a focus in Applied Data Science), you'll learn how to integrate analytics skills with business knowledge to inform decisions that leverage specific areas of the business.




		What can you do with an online business analytics degree?
		


With an online business analytics degree (B.S. Analytics-Business Analytics) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue a variety of jobs including business intelligence analyst, business analyst or financial analyst. 




		Why get a business analytics bachelor’s degree?
		


When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Analytics-Applied Data Science degree, your ability to integrate data skills with various business domains, apply data to solve real-world business problems and communicate complex ideas to both business stakeholders and technical teams will make you a high-level contributor to any cross functional project.




		What makes Franklin’s online degree in business analytics unique?
		


Franklin University's online degree in business analytics is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on real-world application, the B.S. Analytics-Business Analytics empowers students to translate complex data findings into actionable business decisions. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a degree in business analytics accessible for busy adults. 






B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics Focus


		How long does it take to get a Healthcare Analytics degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a health data analytics degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my bachelor’s degree in healthcare analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a healthcare analytics degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's healthcare analytics degree program (B.S. Analytics- with a focus in Healthcare Analytics), you'll learn the basics of the healthcare sector - including medical terms and legal challenges, gain skills to manage health information and obtain knowledge on how to apply data in healthcare settings to improve results.




		What can you do with a healthcare data analytics online degree?
		


With a healthcare data analytics online degree (B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue a variety of jobs including healthcare data analyst, health informatics specialist and healthcare business analyst.




		Why get a healthcare analytics degree?
		


When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics degree, you’ll be able to help healthcare organizations leverage data to improve patient outcomes, optimize healthcare services and inform healthcare policies.




		What makes Franklin’s health analytics degree unique?
		


Franklin University's health analytics degree program is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its specialized focus on the intersection of healthcare, technology and data, the B.S. Analytics-Healthcare Analytics provides students with comprehensive training in healthcare management, information and systems. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a health analytics degree accessible for busy adults. 






B.S. Education Studies Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does it take to get an Education Studies degree? 
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program in just under four years. Want to complete your degree even faster? Thanks to our generous transfer credit program, you just might. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits may help you graduate sooner.




		When can I start an Education Studies degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor to select the start date that's best for you.




		How much will my Education Studies degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Education Studies degree?
		


The Education Studies degree introduces you to learning theories and models used in PK-12 education as a foundation for an education career in a variety of settings.




		What can you do with an Education Studies degree?
		


With this in-demand Education Studies degree, you’ll gain a broad understanding of learning theories and models used in PK-12 education settings that equips you for roles at childcare centers, as well as private and charter schools. The degree also provides a foundation for graduate study in instructional design or post-baccalaureate teacher licensure.




		Why get an Education Studies degree?
		


The Education Studies program is one best suited for those that are interested in working in education roles that do not require a teaching license. These positions include childcare worker, private or charter school teacher or instructional aide. The degree is also a good fit if you plan to study instructional design at the graduate level or pursue a post-baccalaureate teacher licensure program.




		What makes Franklin’s Education Studies degree unique?
		


Franklin’s Education Studies program is unique because it is 100% online with multiple start dates each term, so you can get started when it works best for you and balance earning your degree around other commitments.






Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does it take to get an information systems analytics degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.
 




		When can I start a bachelor’s in information systems analytics degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my online information systems analytics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a bachelor’s in information systems analytics?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's bachelor’s in information systems analytics (B.S. Information Systems-Analytics Focus), you'll gain an industry-relevant education that emphasizes practical, hands-on learning that you can apply to analyze complex data, create data-driven strategies, develop strong problem-solving skills and learn to communicate data insights to non-technical stakeholders.




		What can you do with an information systems analytics degree?
		


With a bachelor’s degree in information systems analytics (B.S. Information Systems-Analytics Focus) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue roles in various industries that require practical skills and analytical expertise, including data analysts, business analysts or market research analysts.




		Why get a bachelor’s in information systems analytics?
		


A bachelor’s in information systems analytics (B.S. Information Systems-Analytics Focus) from Franklin University prepares you for roles that require analytical expertise and technical skills. You’ll build in-demand analytical skills including the ability to leverage data to make informed, strategic decisions. Practical, analytical skills are also transferable to a variety of industries from insurance and finance to healthcare and manufacturing. 




		What makes Franklin’s online information systems analytics degree unique?
		


Franklin University's online information systems analytics degree (B.S Information Systems-Analytics Focus) is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical, hands-on learning, Franklin’s Information Systems-Analytics allows students to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios and enables them to make data-driven contributions to organizational success. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a bachelor’s in information systems analytics accessible for busy adults. 






B.S. Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does it take to get a business information systems degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a bachelor’s in business information systems degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my degree in business information systems cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		 What is a bachelor’s in business information systems degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's business information systems degree (B.S. Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus), you'll gain a comprehensive education that includes technology skills and business knowledge that will help you to address complex challenges, communicate effectively and adapt to help organizations thrive in the ever-changing technological landscape.




		What can you do with a business information systems degree?
		


With a bachelor’s degree in business information systems (B.S. Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue roles as a business analyst, IT-project manager or systems analyst or even work in legal compliance roles related to technology in a variety of industries.




		Why get a business information systems degree?
		


A business information systems degree (B.S. Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus) from Franklin University prepares you for diverse career opportunities. You’ll build strong analytical and problem-solving skills which are highly sought after in the information systems field. The knowledge and skills you gain will also instill an ability to adapt to new tools and methodologies. This adaptability will make you a valuable asset to help organizations navigate changes in technology. 




		What makes Franklin’s online business information systems degree unique?
		


Franklin University's comprehensive degree in business information systems (B.S Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus) is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical, hands-on learning, Franklin’s Business Information Systems focus allows students to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios and enables them to adapt to evolving technology and industry trends. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a information systems bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults. 






B.S. Information Systems-Healthcare Information Systems Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does it take to get an information systems healthcare degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an online healthcare information systems degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my bachelor’s in healthcare information systems cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a bachelor’s in healthcare information systems degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's business information systems degree (B.S. Information Systems-Healthcare Information Systems Focus), you'll gain the expertise needed to excel in healthcare information field including skills and knowledge to manage healthcare data, navigate regulations and inform ethical decisions to improve patient care and healthcare operations.




		What can you do with an information systems healthcare degree?
		


With an information systems healthcare degree (B.S. Information Systems-Healthcare Information Systems Focus) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue roles as health information manager, health informatics specialist or healthcare compliance officer.




		Why get a bachelor’s in healthcare information systems?
		


A bachelor’s in healthcare information systems (B.S. Information Systems-Healthcare Information Systems Focus) from Franklin University prepares you for careers in the rapidly growing healthcare sector. You’ll build in-demand skills in healthcare data management, health informatics and healthcare compliance alongside ethical and regulatory knowledge. 




		What makes Franklin’s online healthcare information systems degree unique?
		


Franklin University's bachelor’s degree in healthcare information systems (B.S Information Systems-Business Information Systems Focus) is designed specifically for the healthcare industry and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical, hands-on learning, Franklin’s Healthcare Information Systems focus allows students to apply their knowledge in real-world healthcare scenarios and equips them to excel in an environment where regulation is prevalent. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a information systems bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults.






B.S. Intervention Specialist 


		What is a B.S. Intervention Specialist degree?
		


A B.S. Intervention Specialist degree prepares you to teach in a variety of settings to support the individualized needs of students in grades K-12 with mild to moderate disabilities.  




		What can you do with a  B.S. Intervention Specialist degree?
		


A B.S. Intervention Specialist degree prepares you to teach as an intervention specialist at the elementary, middle school and high school level. Whichever you choose.




		What makes Franklin’s B.S. Intervention Specialist degree unique?
		


Franklin’s Intervention Specialist degree is a transfer-friendly path to an affordable pathway to a teaching career as an intervention specialist in grades K-12 in Ohio. With our low per credit hour rate, as well as free books and the elimination of placement fees for field experiences and student teaching, Franklin keeps the cost of a high-quality education degree within reach. 




		How long does it take to get a B.S. Intervention Specialist degree?
		


The time requirement to complete Franklin's B.S. Intervention Specialist varies based on transfer credit and intended licensure area. The program is individualized based on the students’ needs. The amount of time it takes to complete depends on how many of your previous courses transfer and how many courses you are able to take per term. Once your transcripts have been evaluated Franklin University will develop a suggested completion plan that will give you an approximate length of your program based upon our rotation. 




		When can I start a B.S. Intervention Specialist degree?
		


The B.S. Intervention Specialist degree can be started in fall or spring terms.
The B.S. Intervention Specialist courses are offered online. Most of the courses are 8-week courses, there are a few 12-week course options, and the final clinical student teaching courses are 16 weeks. Courses are offered based upon a set rotation to ensure that all prerequisites are fulfilled through the program. The majority of the courses are offered in the fall and spring terms, with a few courses being offered in the summer. 
Although all courses are online, you will be required to have some day time availability to complete 32 hours each semester of clinical field experience within a partner P-12 school district.




		How much will my B.S. Intervention Specialist degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






B.S. Primary Education


		What is a B.S. Primary Education degree?
		


A B.S. Primary Education degree prepares you to teach as an elementary generalist in reading, math, science and social studies in grades PK-5.




		What can you do with a B.S. Primary Education degree?
		


A B.S. Primary Education degree prepares you to teach as an elementary generalist in reading, math, science and social studies in grades PK-5.




		What makes Franklin’s B.S. Primary Education degree unique?
		


Franklin’s B.S. Primary Education degree is a transfer-friendly path to an affordable pathway to a teaching career as an elementary generalist in reading, math, science and social studies in grades preK-5 in Ohio. With our low per credit hour rate, as well as free books and the elimination of placement fees for field experiences and student teaching, Franklin keeps the cost of a high-quality education degree within reach. 




		How long does it take to get a B.S. Primary Education degree?
		


The time requirement to complete Franklin's B.S. Primary Education varies based on transfer credit and intended licensure area. The program is individualized based on the students’ needs. The amount of time it takes to complete depends on how many of your previous courses transfer and how many courses you are able to take per term. Once your transcripts have been evaluated Franklin University will develop a suggested completion plan that will give you an approximate length of your program based upon our rotation. 




		When can I start a B.S. Primary Education degree?
		


The B.S. Primary Education degree can be started in fall or spring terms.B.S. Primary Education courses are offered online. Most of the courses are 8-week courses, there are a few 12-week course options, and the final clinical student teaching courses are 16 weeks. Courses are offered based upon a set rotation to ensure that all prerequisites are fulfilled through the program. The majority of the courses are offered in the fall and spring terms, with a few courses being offered in the summer. Although all courses are online, you will be required to have some daytime availability to complete the required number of clinical field experience hours on-site within a partner school. 




		How much will my B.S. Primary Education degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






A.S. Business Administration


		How long does it take to get a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Business Administration in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Administration associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Business Administration associate degree?
		


An associate of science degree program like this is generally a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Business Administration degree program, you'll learn fundamental business principles, concepts and theories, as well as how to apply them on the job.




		What can you do with a Business Administration associate degree?
		


With an A.S. Business Administration from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of assistant-level business job titles, including general assistant manager, sales associate, project coordinator, assistant business analyst and assistant director of customer service.




		Why get a Business Administration associate degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can help you start your career sooner than with a traditional bachelor's degree program. Plus, an A.S. Business Administration from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Business Administration degree program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Business Administration associate degree unique?
		


Get more with Franklin’s associate degree program. In addition to fundamental business classes, you can choose up to 12 hours of major area electives from a large selection of classes. Our program lets you delve into a specific area of interest, such as marketing, while you earn your A.S. Business Administration.






B.S. Business Administration


		How long does it take to get a Business Administration degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Business Administration degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. WWe offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Administration degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Business Administration degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program designed for anyone who wants a broad-based business degree. With Franklin University's B.S. Business Administration degree program, you'll focus on the development and implementation of business strategies. You'll also gain a thorough working knowledge of important management skills, such as deicion making, across a variety of disciplines, including marketing, communication, operations, finance and technology.




		What can you do with a Business Administration degree?
		


With a B.S. Business Administration from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared for a wide range of business-focused career positions, such as analyst, consultant, project manager and entrepreneur. As a business generalist with a bachelor's degree, you'll also be qualified for a variety of mid-level management positions, including general manager, division manager, department manager and sales manager.




		Why get a Business Administration degree?
		


The bachelor's in Business Administration degree program is one of the most well-respected undergraduate degree programs. When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Business Administration degree, you'll not only understand foundational business concepts and theories, you'll understand how to apply them to real-world situations to solve complex business problems. In general, business adminsitration is a versatile, in-demand major for anyone interested in rapid advancement in the workplace.




		What makes Franklin’s Business Administration degree unique?
		


Franklin University’s B.S. Business Administration degree program combines a strong, core program with the flexibility to tailor your degree to your interests. Choose from an extensive list of elective options to specialize in a functional area. Being part of a degree program that lets you tailor your coursework could give you a competitive advantage for hiring and career advancement.






Business Analysis & Project Management Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		 How long does it take to get an information systems project management degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		 When can I start a bachelor’s in information systems and project management?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my online information systems and project management degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		 What is an information systems project management degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's business information systems degree (B.S. Information Systems-Business Analysis & Project Management Focus), you'll gain a practical, industry-aligned degree that includes project management best practices, business needs analysis skills, and opportunities to develop your ability to lead, communicate and make strategic decisions that impact projects and processes. 




		What can you do with an information systems and project management degree?
		


With an information systems and project management degree(B.S. Information Systems-Business Analysis & Project Management Focus) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to contribute to organizations that want to improve their business operations and successfully execute projects in specialized roles that include business analyst, project manager and process improvement specialist. 




		Why get a bachelor’s in information systems and project management?
		


A bachelor’s in information systems and project management (B.S. Information Systems-Business Analysis & Project Management Focus) from Franklin University prepares you to excel in roles that require you to drive successful projects, improve business processes and make strategic decisions. 




		What makes Franklin’s online information systems and project management degree unique?
		


Franklin University's specialized degree in information systems and project management (B.S Information Systems-Business Analysis & Project Management Focus) is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical, hands-on learning, Franklin’s Information Systems-Business Analysis & Project Management focus allows students to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios and enables them to transfer their knowledge in business analysis and project management to roles in any industry. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a information systems project management bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults. 






M.S. in Business Analytics


		What is an M.S. in Business Analytics degree?
		


The M.S. in Business Analytics is a data science degree for business. Business analytics professionals analyze small and big data in order to generate the insights needed to help stakeholders make better decisions and enable organizations function more strategically. 




		What can you do with M.S. in Business Analytics degree?
		


An M.S. in Business Analytics equips you to drive the transformation unwieldy amounts of information into a meaningful basis for decision making and strategic direction. At Franklin, you’ll gain the statistical and analytical skills to excel in a variety of industries including – finance, manufacturing, marketing, insurance and information technology.




		Why get an M.S. in Business Analytics degree?
		


An M.S. in Business Analytics is a great way to boost your professional relevance. By applying analytics models to real-world scenarios, you’ll be able to help organizations do more with less. Demand for analytics professionals is projected to grow 27% through 2027, which is much faster than average.




		 What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Business Analytics degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s 12-month accelerated M.S. in Business Analytics program can be completed online. Through our partnership with SAS, a global leader in analytics, you’ll also earn a SAS Tier 2 Academic Specialization in Data Analytics, which will complement your master’s degree and underscore your analytic knowledge and abilities.




		How long does it take to get M.S. in Business Analytics degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Business Analytics can be completed in  as few as 12 months, 100% online.




		When can I start an M.S. in Business Analytics degree?
		


The M.S. in Business Analytics has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Business Analytics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.






B.S. Business Forensics


		How long does it take to get a Business Forensics degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Business Forensics degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Business Forensics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Business Forensics degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's B.S. Business Forensics degree program, you'll learn about fraud investigation as it relates to presentation in a court of law. With our online degree program, you'll be introduced to the characteristics of fraud, the rules of forensic evidence needed to identify and investigate fraud, and the business controls and systems required to support fraud examination, prevention and detection.




		What can you do with a Business Forensics degree?
		


With a B.S. Business Forensics from Franklin, you'll be prepared to go after a variety of job titles within such fields as business, accounting, criminal justice and public administration. Armed with a foundational understanding of fraud in the workplace, you'll be equipped to pursue a career involving fraud detection, investigation, remediation and control.




		Why get a Business Forensics degree?
		


When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Business Forensics degree, you'll not only understand the potential for fraudent activity as it relates to accounting or business for your organization, you'll also know how to adopt and implement preventive measures that can potentially save millions (even billions!) of dollars in fraud case loss.




		What makes Franklin’s Business Forensics degree unique?
		


Franklin University's bachelor's of science in Business Forensics degree program is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals from the fields of accounting, auditing, business, criminal justice, forensic examination, internal auditing and law. Our Ph.D., JD, MBA, MSA, MA and MS-level instructors hold a variety of professional certifications, including certified public accountant (CPA), certified internal auditor (CIA) and certified fraud examiner (CFE). That means you learn how to apply the academic concepts and theories you learn in the classroom to solve real-world business problems.






Business Office - Payment Options


		How can I make a payment? 
		




Checks and money orders may be dropped off at the University’s Welcome Center or mailed to the University’s Business Office. You may also pay securely online using CASHNet. We offer a variety of online payment options. To learn more or to make an online payment, log on to myFranklin > Shortcuts > WebAdvisor > Financial Information > View My Account Balance > Payment Options.

 




		What forms of payment does Franklin accept?
		




You may pay your tuition balance using MasterCard®, Visa®, Discover®, AmericanExpress®, personal check, cashier’s check or money order. If you pay with a debit card or credit card, you will be charged a small convenience fee. To avoid this convenience fee, please use the electronic check option. Please have your bank's routing number, and your checking or savings account number handy.
 




		When is payment for tuition and fees due?
		




Tuition and fees are due by the first day of class unless you're enrolled in an installment payment plan or a deferred tuition reimbursement plan.
 




		Is there a fee for returned checks?
		




Yes. You will be charged a $25 fee for tuition or fee payments made by check that are returned unpaid. You may may not resolve a returned check with a personal check or online ACH payment. After two returned check payments, Franklin University will no longer accept a personal check for payment on your account, and all future payments will need to be made with a credit card or money order. Failure to clear a returned check will result in a returned check notification, as well as administrative withdrawal from registration.

 




		What is Franklin’s refund policy?
		


Franklin University issues credits in the manner in which the funds were received. 
For overages from financial aid or other payments not paid through their student account, students can select a preference through BankMobile. 
Franklin University has partnered with BankMobile to deliver your financial aid refund. Here is more information about BankMobile and your refund choices. 
Click here to view Franklin’s contract with BankMobile, a Division of Customer Bank.




		Is there a penalty for making a late payment?
		




Yes. If you do not pay your tuition and fees in full, and are not enrolled in an installment payment or deferred tuition reimbursement plan, you will be assessed a 1.5 percent interest charge per month (or 18 percent per annum) on balances 30+ days. Interest charges will accrue monthly until all balances are paid in full. You will be sent a monthly statement showing items posted to your account. If you choose to pay with a credit card, you will be charged a non-refundable convenience fee of 2.75 percent on top of any tuition and fees due. In the event of an unresolved balance of any nature on your account, the following records will not be released to you: diplomas, transfer credit information or transcripts.






Career and Technical Student


		How much is tuition at Franklin University?
		




Tuition varies by degree program, however, our tuition rates are competitive to help keep your education affordable.




		Where is Franklin University located?
		




Our main campus is located in Columbus, Ohio, USA. And, you can join Franklin students all over the world and earn your degree online.




		Is Financial Aid available?
		




Yes. Talk with one of our helpful Financial Aid staff members about Franklin's commitment to helping you fund your education.




		How long will it take to finish my bachelor's degree?
		




Most students who complete training at a career technical school can transfer up to 24 hours of technical credit toward their Franklin degree and then are able to complete the bachelor's from Franklin in about 3 years.




		Do you have to be logged on at a certain time for online?
		




Not usually. For the most part, Franklin's online classes are self-paced with deadlines set in advance for class assignments. That being said, your instructor may host live discussion sessions online; in which case, you would need to log in at the time of the live discussion.




		Are Franklin courses held online or on campus?
		




Both! We offer online classes, as well as some onsite classes at our main campus in Columbus, Ohio. Choose whichever works best for you and your life.




		Is there an application deadline?
		




You can apply to Franklin anytime (including right now!) with our free, online application. Classes are available three semesters a year, so your start date is depended on when you enroll.






Frequently Asked Questions


		How many CCP classes can I take at Franklin during a trimester?
		


CCP limits enrollment to 30 semester hours in an academic year, however, talk to your high school guidance counselor to determine the best number of hours for you.




		How will I work my Franklin University classes around my high school classes and activities?
		




There is no one-size-fits-all approach. Talk with your CCP academic advisor to determine the course schedule that lets you balance your high school classes and other obligations with your college coursework.




		May I take classes online?
		


Yes. Please talk with your guidance counselor.




		May I take Franklin University CCP classes in the summer?
		


Yes. CCP courses are available online and on campus.




		Can I take any classes I want through Franklin’s CCP?
		




It depends. Remedial and religion courses are not eligible under CCP regulations. For other classes, you must meet the course requirements, either through placement testing or previous college coursework. Speak with your high school guidance counselor to determine which classes you may take.




		What happens if I drop a Franklin University CCP course after it has started or if I don’t pass a class?
		


If you drop a Franklin course after the designated drop date or fail a course, your school district may seek reimbursement for the course. Please contact your guidance counselor for your district's policy.




		Is Franklin University accredited?
		


Yes. Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.




		Do I need to send in my transcripts from other colleges for admissions while I am taking Frankln University CCP courses?
		


You will need to send transcripts from any college or university where you have completed prior CCP coursework. Transfer credit can assist with placement and ensure you are taking appropriate coursework.




		Can I participate in Franklin University CCP if I have an IEP or 504 Plan?
		


If a student has a documented disability, and wishes to use accommodations within the CCP classroom, proper documentation will need to be submitted to Disability Services.






B.S. Cloud Computing


		How long does it take to get a cloud computing degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a cloud computing degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my degree in cloud computing cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a cloud computing bachelor’s degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's cloud computing bachelor’s degree program (B.S. Cloud Computing), you'll master the art of deploying, managing and optimizing applications on cloud platforms.




		What can you do with a bachelor’s degree in cloud computing?
		


With a bachelor’s degree in cloud computing (B.S. Cloud Computing) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue IT roles like cloud developer, cloud engineer and cloud architect in a variety of industries including government agencies, large corporations, start ups, nonprofit organizations, education and the military.




		Why get a cloud computing degree?
		


From harnessing the power of virtualization to diving into the intricacies of DevOps and containerization, with a Franklin B.S. Cloud Computing degree, you’ll gain the specialized skill set, relevant knowledge and practical experience to thrive in the ever-changing cloud computing environment.




		What makes Franklin’s degree in cloud computing unique?
		


Franklin University's comprehensive degree in cloud computing is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals. With its emphasis on practical skills and certifications, Franklin’s B.S. Cloud Computing equips students to work effectively to design, implement and manage cloud solutions. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with free student-focused resources provides the support to make a cloud computing bachelor’s degree accessible for busy adults.






Transfer from Columbus State Community College


		How do I request Columbus State Community College transcripts? 
		


After you’ve applied to Franklin, request the transcripts from Columbus State Community College (and any other of your previously attended schools) be sent to Franklin for evaluation. The best way to do this is to contact your previous school’s Office of the Registrar or Office of Records and ask specifically for an official, unaltered, sealed transcript to be sent directly to Franklin. Learn more about how to transfer credits here.
You can request Columbus State Community College transcripts here.




		How do I transfer from Columbus State Community College to Franklin? 
		


Transfer credit is a great way to finish your degree faster. Start by completing your free online application. Then submit your official transcripts for evaluation. For help at any time, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu or complete a Request for Information form online.
 




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring from Columbus State Community College to Franklin?
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from Columbus State Community College. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at CSCC. Your CCRMs are Greg Haskins and Erika Miller, for contact information click here.




		What is Columbus State Community College and Franklin's 3+1 transfer program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs, where students can finish their associate degree at CSCC and complete additional courses at CSCC while concurrently enrolled at Franklin. You can learn more about this transfer option in this short video.




		How many credits can I transfer from Columbus State Community College?
		


With Franklin's generous transfer credit policy, you'll get a lot more transfer credits. For a bachelor's degree, that means up to 94 credit hours. Estimate your transfer hours now, including how much your credits are worth and how quickly transfer credits can help you can finish your degree. Franklin does have eligibility and other transfer credit guidelines, so email us at transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		


Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		Do I have to come to campus for the admission process?
		


No, the admission’s process can be completed virtually which means you never have to come to campus.




		Do I have to come to campus if I take classes online?
		


No, all Franklin's bachelor's degrees can be completed 100% online.






Coming to Franklin - General


		What courses of study does Franklin offer?
		


We offer a wide variety of in-demand undergraduate and graduate degree programs. The curriculum for Franklin's undergraduate majors and graduate programs are designed with input from industry professionals, so you can be sure you're getting a high-quality, relevant education with skills you can immediately begin applying at work.




		How can I afford my degree?
		




Franklin University keeps a high-quality education affordable with competitive tuition rates, multiple methods of financial assistance and a variety of payment options.




		My time is precious; how can I fit school into my schedule?
		




With programs designed especially for busy, working adults, we understand that your role as a student is just one part of your life. Our flexible course scheduling lets you earn your degree -- without putting your life on hold. 




		What are Franklin's Admission Requirements?
		




It depends. For undergraduate degree programs, we have an open admissions policy, which means if you have a high school degree, GED or equivalent, or have completed two years of an associate degree program at an accredited institution, you are eligible for admission into Franklin's bachelor of science degree programs. Each graduate-level program, however, has a different admissions requirement. Please see the degree program page for detailed information about that program's admissions requirements.




		How is Franklin University different from other universities?
		




There are lots of things that make Franklin unique. First, our commitment to helping working professionals achieve their educational goals without disrupting their personal or professional lives dates back to 1902. Second, we serve a diverse student population; offer convenient, student-centered degree programs; and are recognized for excellence and innovation. Lastly, we want you to complete your college education, so we've created a learning experience that strategically eliminates any known barriers so you can enjoy finishing your college degree.




		Will Franklin accept my previous college credits?
		




Because we want you to maximize your transfer credit, we have a very generous transfer credit policy. In fact, more than 90 percent of our students have transferred credits from other colleges and universities.




		Can I earn my degree online?
		


You may access Franklin's revolutionary courses and degree programs, and receive our exceptional student services from home, work or anywhere you have online access. Plus, you'll also have access to the Franklin University Library, Registrar's Office, Bookstore and Financial Aid. Whether you want to take a few courses online or complete your college degree, Franklin allows you to work toward your educational goals when it works for you.




		Is tutoring available?
		


Yes. Our Learning Commons offers services and resources to empower you to become an independent, lifelong learner. We help thousands of students each trimester with a variety of onsite and online programs and services, including tutoring, workshops and writing support.






A.S. Communications


		How long does it take to get a Communications associate degree?
		


Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Communications in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Communications associate degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Communications associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Communications associate degree?
		


This associate of science degree program is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Communications, you'll focus on applied communication, including business, interpersonal and team communications.




		What can you do with a Communications associate degree?
		


With an A.S. Communications from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of entry-level communication job titles, including community relations coordinator, lobbyist, marketing associate and public relations specialist.




		Why get a Communications associate degree?
		


Great question! Graduating from a two-year associate degree program can help you start your career sooner than with a traditional bachelor's degree program. Plus, an A.S. Communications from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Communications program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Communications associate degree unique?
		


Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in communications. Besides introducing you to a variety of tools you can use on the job, our 60-hour A.S. Communications degree teaches you something today's employers demand: how to leverage strategic thinking to develop relevant communication solutions.






B.S. Communications


		How long does it take to get a Communications degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Communications degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Communications degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Communications degree?
		


The bachelor's of science in Communications degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program with an emphasis on strategic communication. With Franklin University's B.S. Communications, you'll develop your writing, critical thinking and interpersonal skills, and learn how to leverage technology to overcome communication challenges.




		What can you do with a Communications degree?
		


With a B.S. Communications from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of mid-level roles, including copywriter, communications manager, interactive communications manager, marketing manager or public information officer.




		Why get a Communications degree?
		


There are plenty of good reasons to earn this degree, including opening yourself up to advanced career opportunities. One of the most compelling reasons, however, is what your coursework can do for you before graduation. Many of our B.S. Communications degree program students say they begin to apply the skills and strategies they learn at Franklin to their current organization -- well before completion -- improving everything from event planning to social media strategies to communication effectiveness.




		What makes Franklin’s Communications degree unique?
		


Not only is Franklin University's B.S. Communications degree program relevant and flexible, our partnerships with community colleges make transferring your associate degree credits virtually hassle-free. And, with this degree program, we include a wide range of relevant skills and experiences in a short amount of total coursework. That means you become familiar with the most important communication tools and methodologies while you learn. As a result, our graduates say they're able to adapt more quickly and seamlessly to evolving technology and communication trends.






Community College Student


		What is the Community College Alliance (CCA)?
		




CCA is partnership between Franklin University and more than 135 community and technical colleges across the U.S. As one of the largest programs of its kind, Franklin's CCA offers a wide variety of bachelor's degree programs -- including 3+1 transfer so you can take a combination of courses at a community college, or onsite or online with Franklin.




		How do I transfer to Franklin University?
		




Transfer credit is a great way to finish your degree faster. Let's see if you qualify. Start by completing your free online application. Then submit your official transcripts for evaluation. For help at any time, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu or complete a Request for Information form online.




		How many credits can I transfer?
		




With Franklin's generous transfer credit policy, you'll get a lot more transfer credits (more than any other institution). For a bachelor's degree, that means up to 94 credit hours. Estimate your transfer hours now, including how much your credits are worth and how quickly transfer credits can help you can finish your degree. Franklin does have eligibility and other transfer credit guidelines, so chat with us or email us at transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		How will Franklin know what courses I have taken at my community college?
		




First, complete your free application. Then request official copies of all of your transcripts from your previous institutions and have them sent directly to: Franklin University – Office of Transfer & Articulation; 201 S. Grant Ave; Columbus, OH 43215 ; or electronically to transcripts@franklin.edu. We'll evaluate your transcripts and let you know how much transfer credit you're eligible for, and which classes you'll need to complete to finish your degree.




		How will I know if Franklin’s online learning is right for me?
		




Learning online isn't right for everyone. But it is a unique and effective learning process, which Franklin makes possible through a variety of online tools, including Canvas, our learning management system.




		Will I have an advisor at Franklin University?
		




Absolutely. After you're registered, you'll meet with your academic advisor at an appointment we call Strong Start. Throughout your time at Franklin, you can talk to your academic advisor about your educational and career goals. Your advisor also can help you prepare your chronological degree plan, give you information on academic requirements and University policies, and act as your liaison to other University resources.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		




Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		How do I apply to Franklin University?
		




Applying is very convenient and easy. Apply online now!




		Is financial aid available?
		




Yes, if you qualify. Please complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) using Franklin’s school ID: 003046. Questions about financial aid? Email us at sfs@franklin.edu.




		Do I register for courses at my community college or at Franklin University?
		




If you're taking an associate degree and additional transfer courses at your community college, please register through your community college. For your first term at Franklin, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What programs of study does Franklin University offer?
		




View a complete list of our many majors and degree programs.




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring to Franklin? 
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from our partner community colleges. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at the community college. CCRM’s can be contacted directly by emailing transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What is Franklin’s 3+1 Transfer Program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs from many of our community college partners, where students can finish their associate degree at their community college and complete additional courses at the community college while concurrently enrolled at Franklin.






A.S. Computer Science


		How long does it take to get a Computer Science associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Computer Science in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Computer Science associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Computer Science associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Computer Science associate degree?
		




This associate of science degree program is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Computer Science, you'll be introduced to basic computer science principles, such as Java object-oriented programming and database management systems.




		What can you do with a Computer Science associate degree?
		




With an A.S. Computer Science from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of entry-level computing positions, including computer user support specialist, software developer and computer system analyst.




		Why get a Computer Science associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program can provide you with necessary workforce skills for a job in computing. Plus, an A.S. Computer Science degree from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Computer Science program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Computer Science associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in computer science. Here you'll gain foundational knowledge and skills to qualify you for entry-level computer science jobs. And, if you decide to pursue your bachelor's degree in a computer science degree program, your A.S. Computer Science will give you an edge towards completion.






B.S. Computer Science


		How long does it take to get a Computer Science degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Computer Science degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Computer Science degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Computer Science degree?
		




The bachelor of science in Computer Science degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Computer Science degree program is designed to give you a strong foundation in software engineering and software systems development. At Franklin, you can become a highly trained computer professional with a foundational understanding in important aspects of the field, including programming, algorithm development, software architecture, computing systems infrastructure, operating systems and networks.




		What can you do with a Computer Science degree?
		




With a B.S. Computer Science from Franklin, you'll possess sound theoretical background as well as practical hands-on experience to prepare you for a wide variety of technical positions, such as systems programmer, systems analyst, software engineer, database administrator and software architect. And, if you wish to pursue an advanced degree, your bachelor's degree will help prepare you for admission to graduate school.




		Why get a Computer Science degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Computer Science degree from Franklin, you'll possess the fundamental skills and knowledge required for a high-demand career in a growing field. And because our degree program is designed to accommodate busy, working adults, you can earn your degree while you work.




		What makes Franklin’s Computer Science degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Computer Science degree program can help you develop critical, high-level technical skills and knowledge, including basic and advanced software design, multi-tier enterprise application development, software architecture and large-scale software systems maintenance. In addition to providing a solid foundation of programming expertise, our computer science curriculum prepares you to assume significant responsibility within an IT organization.






B.S. Criminal Justice Administration


		How long does it take to get a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Criminal Justice Administration degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




The bachelor of science in Criminal Justice Administration degree program is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree program combines theory and practice with an understanding of criminal justice system administration, policies and management within these system components: law enforcement, corrections and the courts.




		What can you do with a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




With a B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of entry-level positions, including private security and investigations, as well as opportunities within the branches of criminal justice: law enforcement, corrections and the courts.




		Why get a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Criminal Justice Administration degree, you'll be well-prepared for entry into and career advancement within state and federal criminal justice systems. As part of your coursework, you'll gain a deep understanding of the relationship between the different components of the criminal justice system, which, in turn, can help improve your performance and impact.




		What makes Franklin’s Criminal Justice Administration degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the criminal justice system themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






Master's Criminal Justice Administration


		What is a Master's in Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		


The M.A. in Criminal Justice Administration is a higher-level credential for advancement in the criminal justice field. Through this 14-month program, you’ll research and analyze current issues facing the criminal justice and apply theory to formulate viable solutions.




		What can you do with a Criminal Justice Administration Master's degree?
		


Franklin University’s master’s degree in Criminal Justice Administration equips currently in-field professionals with applicable knowledge that can increase promotion opportunities or employment at the state and federal level. For senior-level professionals earning the master’s degree provides a pathway to teaching after retirement.




		Why get a  Criminal Justice Administration Master's degree?
		



A master’s degree in Criminal Justice Administration prepares you for advancement, state and federal employment or teaching at the community college level.




		What makes Franklin’s Criminal Justice Administration Master's degree unique?
		


Franklin’s M.A. in Criminal Justice Administration is specific to criminal justice and provides learning opportunities through research and analysis of real-world crime problems.  




		How long does it take to get a Criminal Justice Administration degree?
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are designed specifically for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 14 months.




		When can I start a Criminal Justice Administration Master's degree?
		


The M.A. in Criminal Justice Administration has three starts per year: January, May and August.




		How much will my Criminal Justice Administration Master's degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






Cuyahoga Community College Frequently Asked Questions


		How do I request Cuyahoga Community College transcripts? 
		


 Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from our partner community colleges. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at the community college. CCRM’s can be contacted directly by emailing transferinfo@franklin.edu.
You can request Cuyahoga Community College transcripts here.




		How do I transfer from Cuyahoga Community College to Franklin? 
		


Transfer credit is a great way to finish your degree faster. Start by completing your free online application. Then submit your official transcripts for evaluation. For help at any time, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu or complete a Request for Information form online.




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring from Cuyahoga Community College to Franklin?
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from Cuyahoga Community College. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at the Cuyahoga Community College. Your CCRM is Rebecca Donatelli, for contact information click here.




		What is Cuyahoga Community College and Franklin's 3+1 transfer program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs, where students can finish their associate degree at Tri-C and complete additional courses at Tri-C while concurrently enrolled at Franklin.




		How many credits can I transfer from Cuyahoga Community College?
		


With Franklin's generous transfer credit policy, you'll get a lot more transfer credits. For a bachelor's degree, that means up to 94 credit hours. Estimate your transfer hours now, including how much your credits are worth and how quickly transfer credits can help you can finish your degree. Franklin does have eligibility and other transfer credit guidelines, so email us at transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		




Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		Do I have to come to campus for the admission process?
		


No, the admission’s process can be completed virtually which means you never have to come to campus.




		Do I have to come to campus if I take classes online?
		


No, all Franklin's bachelor's degrees can be completed 100% online.






B.S. Cybersecurity


		How long does it take to get a Cybersecurity degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Cybersecurity degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Cybersecurity degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Cybersecurity degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's B.S. Cybersecurity degree program, you'll develop an in-depth understanding of how to protect data, information, systems, networks, and programs from known, unknown, intended and unintended attack, loss or theft.




		What can you do with a Cybersecurity degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Cybersecurity degree, you'll have the opportunity to play a crucial role in helping organizations deal with compromises, breaches and intrusions of data networks and computer systems. In addition, you'll be well-position for a wide variety of red-hot career positions, including security engineer, chief information security officer, forensics expert, cyber analyst, cryptographer, security administrator and more.




		Why get a Cybersecurity degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Cybersecurity degree, you'll be prepared to help business, industry and government protect critical information assets from accidental or unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, loss, security threats and hackers.




		What makes Franklin’s Cybersecurity degree unique?
		




Franklin’s B.S. Cybersecurity degree program provides a hands-on and responsive education to help make you job-ready from day one. Franklin's curriculum is designed for the busy, working adult, with classes in information technology, policy, management, architecture, programming, database systems and networks. You learn both the “what” of enterprise security, as well as the “how” and the “why.” In addition, you'll prepare a real-world security plan, risk assessment, penetration test, vulnerability scan and more that can assist a local business or nonprofit organization with their actual security needs.






M.S. in Data Analytics


		What is an M.S. in Data Analytics degree?
		


The M.S. in Data Analytics is focused on the science of data – coding, modeling and analytic tools – and data operations including advanced analysis. Data analytics professionals use mathematical and statistical methods and techniques along with programming to design and build data models. 




		What can you do with M.S. in Data Analytics degree?
		


The M.S. Data Analytics equips you with the statistical skills necessary to conduct descriptive and predictive analytics; the programming skills to create and apply computer algorithms; the tools and platforms to visualize and mine big data, and the communication skills necessary to effectively convey findings and provide strategies and best practices within your organization.




		Why get an M.S. in Data Analytics degree?
		


Organizations from all sectors of the economy are seeking individuals with programming, analytics and communication skills for the purpose of sorting immense data sets to provide a competitive edge or a predictive tool that will help differentiate themselves in crowded markets. Demand for data analytics professionals are also expected to continue to grow by 30%, a rate that’s faster than average.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Data Analytics degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s 19-month accelerated M.S. in Data Analytics program can be completed 100% online. Through our partnership with SAS, a global leader in analytics, you’ll also earn a SAS Tier 2 Academic Specialization in Data Analytics, which will complement your master’s degree and underscore your analytic knowledge and abilities.




		 How long does it take to get M.S. in Data Analytics degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Data Analytics can be completed in 19 months, 100% online.




		 When can I start an M.S. in Data Analytics degree?
		


The M.S. in Data Analytics has multiple start dates per year.




		 How much will my M.S. in Data Analytics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.






DNP-AGPCNP Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a DNP degree? 
		


A DNP or Doctor of Nursing Practice degree is a clinical practice degree, and is different from the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing degree, which is a research degree.




		What can you do with a DNP degree? 
		


Plenty! As a DNP graduate, you’ll be prepared to hold a variety of job positions and roles in leadership, administration, informatics and, if you’re prepared as a nurse practitioner, advanced practice.




		Why get a DNP degree?
		


If you want to become an advanced nursing leader, a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) is considered the terminal degree for clinical practice.




		What makes Franklin’s DNP degree unique? 
		


Franklin streamlines your educational experience. We’ll help you finish faster and let you practice what you learn while you learn – thanks to embedded practicum hours and a scholarly project that are included within our courses.




		How long is an online DNP program?
		


Congratulations on wanting to advance your education and career through Franklin’s Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program! The Franklin online DNP is designed for busy nurses, so, depending on your previous education and area of focus, you may be able to complete your terminal degree in 6-11 trimesters (24-48 months).




		When can I start a DNP degree?
		


Getting started with your Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP degree) is easy and convenient at Franklin. We offer two start dates a year in fall and spring. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that's right for you.




		How much will my DNP degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		Do I need to have an MSN before starting a DNP program?
		


Good news! The answer is “no.” You can be admitted to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program through Franklin’s BSN to DNP pathway. With this pathway, you will take two bridge courses (NURS 800 and NURS 805) first. Once you successfully complete these courses, you will be fully admitted to the DNP program. By the way, this is the same pathway that anyone with a BSN and a non-nursing master’s degree would follow for the DNP degree.




		For the BSN to DNP degree, will I also earn the MSN degree? 
		


No. However, as a prerequisite to full admission to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program, you will complete two bridge courses that cover foundational knowledge from the M.S. in Nursing (MSN) program.   




		How will I complete the practicum hours for the DNP?  
		


Practicum hours focus on skill development in essential areas, including leadership, informatics, finance and patient safety. Some of your practicum hours will be completed at a practicum site with a preceptor to guide your work. Other hours are considered experiential and will be facilitated by a faculty member as part of your coursework. In addition, as part of your practicum, you will develop a scholarly project using an evidence-based intervention and quality improvement framework that addresses a gap in practice, process, or policy at your practice site. Bottom line? You’ll be able to complete about half of your practicum hours during your coursework!




		If I complete the FNP at the same time as the DNP, will I have to do clinical hours?  
		


Yes. You will complete 600 clinical hours in the Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) specialty at a medical office or clinic.




		What is an Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner?
		


Adult-gerontology nurse practitioners (AGNP) treat patients from adolescence (typically from age 13) through old age. The AGNP specialty promotes and sustains health in the community and workplace, with particular emphasis on culturally diverse and high-risk populations. Faculty members prepare AGPCNPs to assess and manage the health care of adolescents, adults and older adults with common acute and multiple chronic conditions.




		What can you do with a DNP-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


Adult-gerontology nurse practitioners specialize in comprehensive healthcare for adults across the lifespan from adolescence (13) to end of life; they may work in primary care or acute care.




		Why get a DNP-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


In addition to nursing fundamentals, Adult-gerontology nurse practitioners have an intimate understanding of the aging process. Their education and practice focuses on serving those patients 13 years of age and older in dealing with the unique medical challenges that occur in the later chapters of one’s life. The AGNP will often serve as the go-to medical provider for patients over the long term, typically taking a wellness-based and holistic approach to medical care and functioning as the familiar point of contact for routine medical visits.






DNP-PMHNP Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a DNP degree? 
		


A DNP or Doctor of Nursing Practice degree is a clinical practice degree, and is different from the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing degree, which is a research degree.




		What can you do with a DNP degree? 
		


Plenty! As a DNP graduate, you’ll be prepared to hold a variety of job positions and roles in leadership, administration, informatics and, if you’re prepared as a nurse practitioner, advanced practice.




		Why get a DNP degree?
		


If you want to become an advanced nursing leader, a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) is considered the terminal degree for clinical practice.




		What makes Franklin’s DNP degree unique? 
		


Franklin streamlines your educational experience. We’ll help you finish faster and let you practice what you learn while you learn – thanks to embedded practicum hours and a scholarly project that are included within our courses.




		How long is an online DNP program?
		


Congratulations on wanting to advance your education and career through Franklin’s Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program! The Franklin online DNP is designed for busy nurses, so, depending on your previous education and area of focus, you may be able to complete your terminal degree in 6-11 trimesters (24-48 months).




		When can I start a DNP degree?
		


Getting started with your Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP degree) is easy and convenient at Franklin. We offer two start dates a year in fall and spring. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that's right for you.




		How much will my DNP degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		Do I need to have an MSN before starting a DNP program?
		


Good news! The answer is “no.” You can be admitted to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program through Franklin’s BSN to DNP pathway. With this pathway, you will take two bridge courses (NURS 800 and NURS 805) first. Once you successfully complete these courses, you will be fully admitted to the DNP program. By the way, this is the same pathway that anyone with a BSN and a non-nursing master’s degree would follow for the DNP degree.




		For the BSN to DNP degree, will I also earn the MSN degree? 
		


No. However, as a prerequisite to full admission to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program, you will complete two bridge courses that cover foundational knowledge from the M.S. in Nursing (MSN) program.   




		How will I complete the practicum hours for the DNP?  
		


Practicum hours focus on skill development in essential areas, including leadership, informatics, finance and patient safety. Some of your practicum hours will be completed at a practicum site with a preceptor to guide your work. Other hours are considered experiential and will be facilitated by a faculty member as part of your coursework. In addition, as part of your practicum, you will develop a scholarly project using an evidence-based intervention and quality improvement framework that addresses a gap in practice, process, or policy at your practice site. Bottom line? You’ll be able to complete about half of your practicum hours during your coursework!




		If I complete the PMHNP at the same time as the DNP, will I have to do clinical hours?
		


Yes. You will complete 600 clinical hours in the Psychiatric Mental Health Primary Care Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) specialty at a medical office or clinic.




		What is an DNP-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


An DNP-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner is a degree that provides a holistic approach to diagnose acute, episodic and chronic mental health illnesses and provide treatment options that include medication, psychotherapy or a combination of the two.




		What can you do with an DNP-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioners specialize in psychiatric mental healthcare across the lifespan; they may work in private practice settings, integrated primary care, and acute care settings.




		Why get an DNP-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


In addition to nursing fundamentals, psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners have an essential understanding of cognitive processes, behaviors, and how life events affect the mental health of patients. Their education and practice focus on serving those patients. The PMHNP will often serve as the specialized provider for patients over the long term, typically taking a wellness-based and holistic approach to mental healthcare while also providing integrated care for mental illness in primary care settings.
 






Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)


		How long does it take to get a Doctor of Business Administration degree?
		




At Franklin, you could finish your terminal degree -- start-to-finish (including your dissertation) -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Transfer up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start a Doctor of Business Administration degree?
		




When you start your online doctoral program at Franklin, you also start to transform your professional pathway. Franklin's online doctoral programs begin every January, April, August and September.




		How much will my Doctor of Business Administration degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a Doctor of Business Administration degree?
		




Franklin's Doctor of Business Administration degree program is the highest-level degree program, representing mastery of leadership-level research, writing and presentation. This three-year online degree program is designed to help you hone your ability to identify, define and solve a pressing business problem, issue or gap.




		What can you do with a Doctor of Business Administration degree?
		




With a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) degree, you'll be prepared to be one of the go-to problem-solvers -- in your own business, as an internal or external consultant to a business organization, or as a teacher for the next-generation of business leaders.




		Why get a Doctor of Business Administration degree?
		




Earning your applied doctorate degree can put you on the path to realizing your professional dreams. As a top consultant, advisor or entrepreneur, a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) degree can help you make business the best it can be.




		What makes Franklin’s Doctor of Business Administration degree unique?
		




As a leader in practical application education, a DBA from Franklin University can equip you with the knowledge, skills and tools needed to resolve business problems, issues or gaps. And because we use an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on completing it -- all while you earn your degree.






Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Instructional Design Leadership-Curriculum & Instruction


		What are online Doctoral Programs in Curriculum and Instruction?
		


Franklin University's online Ed.D. Curriculum & Instruction is a doctorate program designed for those who enjoy working with teachers and educators and want to influence educational practices and policy decisions. This online Ed.D. Curriculum & Instruction is designed to equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in curriculum development, instructional design and pedagogical theory so you can make meaningful contributions in the field of education. Our 100% online doctoral program in curriculum and instruction will equip you with the theoretical and practical application skills needed to ensure quality instruction.




		What can you do with an Ed.D. in Curriculum & Instruction?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's online Ed.D. Instructional Design Leadership doctoral program with a focus on Curriculum and Instruction, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role in the growing field of instructional design. These advanced credentials will prepare you for a variety of leadership roles including chief academic officer, director of teaching and learning, and dean of instruction.




		Why get an Ed.D. Curriculum & Instruction doctorate?
		


With an online Ed.D. Curriculum & Instruction doctoral degree, you'll prepare yourself for a rewarding career in education, education administration or leadership – a career that lets you combine communication, analytical, problem-solving and strategic thinking skills with a passion for learning and development.




		What makes Franklin’s online Doctor of Education in Instructional Design Leadership with a focus on Curriculum & Instruction program unique?
		


Franklin's 100% online Ed.D. in Curriculum & Instruction is a 3-year doctoral program that focuses on the leadership aspects within the instructional design field, including research, practical curriculum and emerging trends. In addition to learning from real-world professionals, our program is unlike any other online doctoral programs in curriculum and instruction. That's because our doctorate in instructional design degree program goes beyond theoretical concepts to include research and practical application. Our doctoral students learn valuable leadership, analytical, and strategic thinking and evaluation skills. At Franklin, we're unique in offering a doctoral-level knowledge management course and instructional design leadership course that also lets you add coaching and consulting expertise to your leadership skillset. 




		When can I start my online doctoral program in curriculum and instruction?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online Doctor of Education program (Ed.D.) in Instructional Design Leadership degree program with a focus on curriculum and instruction. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).




		How much will my online Ed.D. Curriculum and Instruction cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of the total cost of your education in Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.-IDL) with a focus on curriculum and instruction. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an Ed.D. in Curriculum and Instruction?
		


At Franklin, if you complete two courses per term, you could finish your online doctoral program in curriculum in instruction in 2 years. Ambitious, hard-working students can complete their dissertation research in 1 year; however, it is not uncommon for students to extend their research beyond 12 months. The good news is that you determine how quickly you finish your dissertation research.






Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Organizational Leadership-Organizational Leadership Focus


		How long does it take to earn an Organizational Leadership Ed.D.?
		


At Franklin, you could complete your online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership degree -- including your dissertation -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about transferring up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start my Ed.D. Organizational Leadership degree program?
		


When you start your Organizational Leadership Ed.D. at Franklin, you’re also starting to transform your career path. Like our other online doctoral programs, Franklin's Ed.D. Organizational Leadership doctorate starts every January, April, August and September.




		How much does an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership cost?
		


Investing in your future is affordable at Franklin University because you get a quality education at a competitive cost. Unlike per-year or per-term college expenses, our per-credit-hour tuition rates make it easy to calculate the cost of earning your doctorate. Franklin’s 2023-2024 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Get a personalized cost estimate of your Ed.D. Organizational Leadership degree with Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator. Questions? Ask our helpful staff about financial aid programs and tuition financing options.




		 What is an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


An Ed.D. Organizational Leadership doctorate draws on best practices in leadership to build your competency as an effective leader who is well-prepared to solve real-world problems and drive organizational change. Franklin’s Organizational Leadership Ed.D. is ideal for current and aspiring leaders who are ready to make an impact in their workplace.




		What can you do with an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership, you’ll be prepared to lead in a broad range of disciplines, including for-profit, nonprofit, government and military. From school district superintendents and university presidents to CEOs and community health directors, complex organizations are looking for leaders who hold the skills and qualifications of an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership.




		Why get an online Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


Earning an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership is the pinnacle of career credentials to support your professional ambitions. The Organizational Leadership Ed.D. is designed to equip and empower you to become a dynamic leader who can translate the complexities of an organization or institution into opportunities for growth and success.




		What makes Franklin’s Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree special?
		


As a leader in practical application education, an Ed.D.in Organizational Leadership from Franklin University equips you with the decision-making and ethical leadership skills needed to develop and implement strategies that solve complex issues. And because Franklin uses an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on finishing it -- all while you earn your degree.






Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Organizational Leadership-PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus


		How long does it take to earn an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree with a focus on PK-12 Leadership degree?
		


At Franklin, you could complete your doctorate in PK12-educational leadership -- including your dissertation -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about transferring up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start my Ed.D. Educational Leadership degree program?
		


When you start your online doctoral program in PK-12 Educational Leadership at Franklin, you’re also starting to transform your career path. Like our other online doctoral programs, Franklin's Ed.D. Educational Leadership doctorate starts every January, April, August and September.




		How much does an online Doctorate in Educational Leadership cost?
		


Investing in your future is affordable at Franklin University because you get a quality education at a competitive cost. Unlike per-year or per-term college expenses, our per-credit-hour tuition rates make it easy to calculate the cost of earning your doctorate. Franklin’s 2023-2024 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Get a personalized estimate of your Doctorate in Educational Leadership with Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator. Questions? Ask our helpful staff about financial aid programs and tuition financing options.




		What is an Ed.D. in Educational PK-12 Leadership degree?
		


A Doctor of Education in PK-12 educational leadership draws on best practices in leadership to build your competency as an effective leader who is well-prepared to solve real-world problems and drive organizational change. Franklin’s Ed.D. in Educational Leadership is ideal for current and aspiring leaders who are ready to make an impact in their workplace.




		What can you do with an online Doctorate in Educational PK-12 Leadership?
		


With an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree with a focus on PK-12 Educational Leadership, you can qualify for a variety of positions, including superintendent, principal, adjunct faculty, consultant or policy analyst. Building and district-level schools are looking for leaders who hold the skills and qualifications of those who’ve earned their Ed.D. Educational Leadership.




		Why get an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree with a focus on PK-12 Educational Leadership?
		


Earning a doctorate focused in PK-12 educational leadership is the pinnacle of career credentials to support your professional ambitions. The Organizational Leadership Ed.D. in PK-12 Educational Leadership is designed to equip and empower you to become a dynamic leader who can translate the complexities of an institution of higher learning into opportunities for growth and success.




		What makes Franklin’s Ed.D. in PK Educational Leadership degree special?
		


As a leader in practical application education, the Ed.D. in PK-12 Educational Leadership from Franklin University equips you with the decision-making and ethical leadership skills needed to develop and implement strategies that solve complex issues. And because Franklin uses an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on finishing it -- all while you earn your degree.






Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership (Ed.D)


		How long does it take to earn an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


At Franklin, you could finish your terminal degree -- start-to-finish (including your dissertation) -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about Franklin's transfer credits.




		When can I start an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


When you start your online doctoral program at Franklin, you also start to transform your professional pathway. Franklin's online doctoral programs begin every January, April, August and September.




		How much will my Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


An Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership is a degree for current and aspiring leaders who want to make their mark on their organization or their industry. Drawing on best practices in leadership, you’ll learn how to build your competency as an effective leader to solve real-world problems and impact change within an organization. 




		What can you do with an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership degree?
		


With a broad focus on organizational leadership, the degree is applicable to a broad range of disciplines – for-profit, nonprofit or military. From school district superintendents and university presidents to CEOs and community health directors, any complex organization can benefit from effective leaders. 






Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA)


		How long does it take to get a Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree?
		




At Franklin, you could finish your terminal degree -- start-to-finish (including your dissertation) -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Transfer up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start a Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree?
		




When you start your online doctoral program at Franklin, you also start to transform your professional pathway. Franklin's online doctoral programs begin every January, April, August and September.




		How much will my Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree?
		




Franklin's Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree program is the highest-level degree program, representing mastery of leadership-level research, writing and presentation. This three-year online degree program is designed to help you hone your ability to develop organizational strategies to improve healthcare services, operations and outcomes.




		What can you do with a Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree?
		




With a Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) degree, you'll be prepared to teach healthcare administration and management coursework at the university level, or advance in leadership, operations, research or quality within a healthcare organization.




		Why get a Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree?
		




Earning your applied doctorate degree can put you on the path to realizing your professional dreams. The Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) degree is designed to equip you to become a dynamic leader complex who can advance healthcare operations and outcomes.




		What makes Franklin’s Doctor of Healthcare Administration degree unique?
		




As a leader in practical application education, a DHA from Franklin University can equip you with the knowledge, skills and tools needed to develop innovative solutions to complex healthcare problems. And because we use an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on completing it -- all while you earn your degree.






Doctor of Nursing Practice FAQs


		What is a DNP degree? 
		


A DNP or Doctor of Nursing Practice degree is a clinical practice degree, and is different from the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Nursing degree, which is a research degree.




		What can you do with a DNP degree? 
		


Plenty! As a DNP graduate, you’ll be prepared to hold a variety of job positions and roles in leadership, administration, informatics and, if you’re prepared as a nurse practitioner, advanced practice.




		Why get a DNP degree?
		


If you want to become an advanced nursing leader, a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) is considered the terminal degree for clinical practice.




		What makes Franklin’s DNP degree unique? 
		


Franklin streamlines your educational experience. We’ll help you finish faster and let you practice what you learn while you learn – thanks to embedded practicum hours and a scholarly project that are included within our courses.




		How long is an online DNP program?
		


Congratulations on wanting to advance your education and career through Franklin’s Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program! The Franklin online DNP is designed for busy nurses, so, depending on your previous education and area of focus, you may be able to complete your terminal degree in 6-11 trimesters (24-48 months).




		When can I start a DNP degree?
		


Getting started with your Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP degree) is easy and convenient at Franklin. We offer two start dates a year in fall and spring. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that's right for you.




		How much will my DNP degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		Do I need to have an MSN before starting a DNP program?
		


Good news! The answer is “no.” You can be admitted to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree program through Franklin’s BSN to DNP pathway. With this pathway, you will take two bridge courses (NURS 800 and NURS 805) first. Once you successfully complete these courses, you will be fully admitted to the DNP program. By the way, this is the same pathway that anyone with a BSN and a non-nursing master’s degree would follow for the DNP degree.




		For the BSN to DNP degree, will I also earn the MSN degree? 
		


No. However, as a prerequisite to full admission to the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program, you will complete two bridge courses that cover foundational knowledge from the M.S. in Nursing (MSN) program.   




		How will I complete the practicum hours for the DNP?  
		


Practicum hours focus on skill development in essential areas, including leadership, informatics, finance and patient safety. Some of your practicum hours will be completed at a practicum site with a preceptor to guide your work. Other hours are considered experiential and will be facilitated by a faculty member as part of your coursework. In addition, as part of your practicum, you will develop a scholarly project using an evidence-based intervention and quality improvement framework that addresses a gap in practice, process, or policy at your practice site. Bottom line? You’ll be able to complete about half of your practicum hours during your coursework!




		If I complete the FNP at the same time as the DNP, will I have to do clinical hours?  
		


Yes. You will complete 600 clinical hours in the Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) specialty at a medical office or clinic.






DPS - Instructional Design Leadership


		How long does it take to get a DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree?
		




At Franklin, you could finish your terminal degree -- start-to-finish (including your dissertation) -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about Franklin's prior learning and transfer credits.




		When can I start a DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree?
		




When you start your online doctoral program at Franklin, you also start to transform your professional pathway. Franklin's online doctoral programs begin every January, April, August and September.




		How much will my DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree?
		




Franklin's Doctor of Professional Studies in Instructional Design Leadership degree program is the highest-level degree program, representing mastery of leadership-level research, writing and presentation. This three-year online degree program is designed to help you hone your ability to impact business performance through advanced curricula and instructional products.




		What can you do with a DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree?
		




With a Doctor of Professional Studies (DPS) Instructional Design Leadership degree, you'll be prepared to teach the next-generation of instructional design leaders, or advance your private-industry career with a top-level position, such as chief learning officer, training director, chief academic officer, consultant or director of training and development.




		Why get a  DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree?
		




Earning your applied doctorate degree can put you on the path to realizing your professional dreams. The Doctor of Professional Studies (DPS) Instructional Design Leadership degree is designed to give you the knowledge and skills to help transform organizational learning, culture and performance.




		What makes Franklin’s DPS - Instructional Design Leadership degree unique?
		




Franklin University's DPS Instructional Design Leadership is the first program in the nation to combine professional practice in leadership with instructional design at the doctoral level. Our program focuses on solving real-world problems with practical knowledge, research, communication and presentation skills. And because we use an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on completing it -- all while you earn your degree.






E-Textbooks - Access/Resource Options


		What is the difference between an e-textbook and homework platform (courseware)?
		


An e-textbook is an electronic version of a textbook.  It may include the capability to underline, highlight, take and share notes, and sometimes offer a read aloud feature.
A homework platform is an online learning environment, including the e-textbook, homework problems, study plans, simulations and any assessments your instructor indicates.




		How will I know that a course I am interested in/registering for has an embedded course material?
		


A comprehensive course list is accessible on the Textbooks page.




		How quickly will I have access to embedded course materials after registration?
		


You will have access to the course materials as soon as course access opens (10 days prior to the course start date).




		How long will I have access to purchased e-textbooks?
		


Length of access may vary by publisher agreement.




		Can I opt-out of embedded e-textbooks and associated charges?
		


Yes, although it is not recommended. If you wish to opt-out of embedded e-textbooks, log into the course, click into the course material platform, and choose to opt-out. You will be able to opt-out no later than 14 days from the course start date. Your associated charge(s) will be removed no later than 24 days after the course start date and the course material(s) will subsequently be deleted from your online “library.” 
Please note: If you elect to opt out of and independently obtain your access, your out-of-pocket expense is likely to be higher.




		If I opt out, when will the charge be removed from my account balance?
		


The fee for any e-textbooks you opt out of will be removed from your account no later than 24 days after the course start date.




		If I’ve already opted out of course materials, can I opt back in during that course?
		


You may opt back in to embedded course materials through the 14th day of the course by following the same procedure as opting-out.




		Can I opt out of embedded course materials for all my future courses at once?
		


No. Opt out decisions must be made and submitted through your myFranklin account for each course section. Embedded course materials have shown to improve student success, so we want you to maximize your exposure to these enhanced learning tools.




		If my course has more than one course material, can I select to opt out of some but not all of the resources?
		


Yes. Each course material will be listed individually for the ease of opting out of them individually if they include a fee.




		If I register for a course that includes an embedded e-textbook, do I have the option to purchase a hard copy of the text at an additional cost or use a financial aid book voucher?
		


You may purchase the hard copy through an external source. External sources do not accept financial aid vouchers.




		If my learning preference is for a hard copy textbook, can sections of the e-textbooks be printed?
		


You may be able to print a certain number of pages of the book at one time. This capability is controlled by the e-textbook publisher or platform.




		Can e-textbooks be downloaded to a device and thus be accessible offline?
		


Some e-textbooks available through courseware or library may not be downloadable.  However, you will be able to download e-textbooks from the Yuzu platform. You will need to register when you connect to these e-textbooks for the first time. It is highly recommended to download your Yuzu e-textbook in order to have offline access. The Yuzu application allows you to download the e-textbook to up to 4 devices at any given time.




		Are e-textbooks and homework platforms available for mobile devices?
		


E-textbooks provided through the Yuzu platform are available for mobile devices. At this time, homework platforms are being developed for mobile device access.




		Can I opt out of embedded homework platforms (courseware)? 
		


Yes. However, because homework platforms and courseware contain required assignments, quizzes, tests, and simulations, you will not be able to pass the course if you do not have access to these materials. See the Policies & Resources section inside your course for more information on opting out of courseware.




		If I access my e-textbook directly from Vital Source, it asks for a redemption code.  Where do I find that code?
		


Franklin University does not issue redemption codes to access e-textbooks. Instead, you must access your e-textbook(s) directly through your course website. Accessing resources in Canvas will eliminate the need for a redemption code.




		If I use a public computer or the Franklin University Learning Commons’ computers, will those computers have the correct technology to open the course materials?
		


Yes. Course materials are also available through public-facing browsers.




		What accommodations will be made if I do not have the latest software to meet embedded course material technical requirements?
		


Using embedded course materials does not require any additional technology beyond the minimum technology requirements outlined in the Academic Bulletin for all students.




		Will I still be able to access textbooks for courses with embedded e-textbooks through the library (on reserve and/or request through OhioLINK)?
		


Yes. Hard copies of these texts may be available for some courses for use at the library, but the e-textbook will still be embedded in the course with a required e-textbook charge applied unless you opt out. If the library does not carry the hard copy of the e-textbook, you may inquire with them about the possible availability through OhioLINK.




		Will the Bookstore continue to stock physical copies of the textbooks for the courses with the embedded e-textbooks?
		


No. The bookstore will only stock print materials for courses that require a physical textbook. You must obtain opt-out materials independently.




		If I take a course that utilizes the same course materials I purchased for a previous class, will I be charged for the e-textbook(s) again?
		


Yes. For each course with embedded material(s), you will receive a charge. You will need to opt-out of the material(s) if you retained access from a previous course. 






E-Textbooks: Billing/Costs


		When will I be charged the course material(s) fee?
		


Upon registration for one or more course(s) with embedded course materials, a separate fee will appear on your account to cover the cost of the course materials. This fee will be listed as a book fee and will indicate the course the fee is for.




		What is the charge for embedded course materials?
		


The cost of embedded course materials is $49.00 per e-textbook and $89.00 per courseware.




		Will there be any classes that won’t have course material charges?
		


Not all courses have course material charges. Only embedded course materials which have a cost for access will have an associated charge. You can see a list of those materials here.




		Where can I find an itemized breakdown of my tuition and fees?
		


An itemized breakdown of all charges to your account is available in your self-service account under View Account Balance & Payment Options.




		Will the University profit from the fee?
		


No. The University will not make a profit from these fees. Fees cover costs of the embedded course materials only.




		Will financial aid cover embedded course material(s) fees?
		


Yes, available financial aid can be used to cover course material(s) fees charged to your Franklin account. Associated fees for course materials will appear on your account as an “e-textbook charge” and will be covered as payments are applied, including financial aid.




		Will book vouchers be going away?
		


No. The book voucher process will remain in place. Some courses will have embedded course materials while others will not. Book vouchers will still be available for courses without embedded course materials.






E-Textbooks: Financial Aid/Military Funding


		Will Federal Tuition Assistance (FTA) cover the e-textbook charge if I am a Service member?
		


No. If you are using FTA funding, you will be charged an e-textbook fee for any courses with embedded course materials. This will create a balance on your account for which you will be responsible.  




		CH 31 (Vocational Rehab) currently covers all costs for books as well as $75 per term for supplies for eligible veterans.  Will this continue?
		


Yes. Charges associated with embedded course materials will be covered by CH 31 funds. You should use the existing process to cover costs for supplies.






Ed.D. - Organizational Leadership-Higher Education Leadership Focus


		How long does it take to earn an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership with a focus in Higher Education?
		


At Franklin, you could complete your online Doctorate in Higher Education degree -- including your dissertation -- in about 3 years. Want to finish even faster? Ask about transferring up to 24 hours of previously earned credit.




		When can I start my Ed.D. Higher Education degree program?
		


When you start your Ed.D. in Higher Education online program at Franklin, you’re also starting to transform your career path. Like our other online doctoral programs, Franklin's Ed.D. Higher Education leadership doctorate starts every January, April, August and September.




		How much does an online doctorate in Higher Education cost?
		


Investing in your future is affordable at Franklin University because you get a quality education at a competitive cost. Unlike per-year or per-term college expenses, our per-credit-hour tuition rates make it easy to calculate the cost of earning your doctorate. Franklin’s 2023-2024 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Get a personalized cost estimate of your Ed.D.-Higher Education Leadership with Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator. Questions? Ask our helpful staff about financial aid programs and tuition financing options.




		What is an Ed.D in Organizational Leadership with a focus in Higher Education Leadership degree?
		


An Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership with a focus in Higher Education Leadership draws on best practices in leadership to build your competency as an effective leader who is well-prepared to solve real-world problems and drive organizational change. Franklin’s Ed.D. in Higher Education is ideal for current and aspiring leaders who are ready to make an impact in their workplace.




		What can you do with an online doctorate focused in higher education leadership?
		


With an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree with a focus on Higher Education Leadership, you can qualify for a variety of positions, including university president, dean of students or faculty member. From community colleges and private colleges to four-year colleges and universities, institutes of higher education are looking for leaders who hold the skills and qualifications of an Ed.D. Higher Education.




		 Why get an Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership degree with a focus on Higher Education Leadership or Higher Education Administration?
		


Earning an Ed.D. Organizational Leadership doctorate in Higher Education is the pinnacle of career credentials to support your professional ambitions. The Organizational Leadership Ed.D. in Higher Education is designed to equip and empower you to become a dynamic leader who can translate the complexities of an institution of higher learning into opportunities for growth and success.




		 What makes Franklin’s Ed.D. in Higher Education degree special?
		


As a leader in practical application education, an Ed.D. in Higher Education online program from Franklin University equips you with the decision-making and ethical leadership skills needed to develop and implement strategies that solve complex issues. And because Franklin uses an embedded dissertation process, our program is designed for completion. That means you'll use the findings you develop throughout your coursework to advance your dissertation research and get a head start on finishing it -- all while you earn your degree.






Ed.D. in Instructional Design Leadership-Educational Technology


		What is an online doctorate in instructional technology?
		


Franklin University's Ed.D. Educational Technology is an instructional technology doctorate program designed for technology-savvy, career-minded professionals looking to lead in these key areas: learning technology, training and development, and knowledge management. Our 100% online doctorate in instructional and educational technology will equip you with the theoretical and practical application skills needed to engage and educate an organization's most valuable asset: people.With Franklin's online doctorate in educational technology, you'll be prepared to bring focus and cohesiveness to organizational development needs, inspire lifelong learning in others, and help individuals and teams develop their own leadership competencies. 




		What can you do with a doctorate in educational technology?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's online Ed.D. Educational Technology program, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role in the burgeoning field of training, instruction and professional development. With these advanced credentials, you'll be ready to take on a variety of leadership roles including chief learning officer, director of learning and performance, and director of talent management.




		Why get an Ed.D. - Instructional Design Leadership degree with a focus on technology?
		


With an online doctorate in educational technology, you'll equip yourself for a rewarding educational career in or outside traditional educational settings. This doctoral program lets you combine your passion for technology with communication, analytical, problem-solving and strategic thinking skills to lead the way in the areas of training and development, leadership development and management consulting.




		What makes Franklin’s online doctorate in educational technology program unique?
		


Franklin's 100% online Ed.D. Educational Technology is a 3-year doctoral program that focuses on the leadership aspects within the instructional design field. In addition to learning from real-world professionals, our program is unlike any other online doctorate in educational technology. Franklin's Ed.D. Educational Technology program goes beyond theoretical concepts to include research and practical application of leadership, analytical, strategic thinking and evaluation skills. At Franklin, you'll have the opportunity to add on-trend, in-demand technology, leadership, research and instructional design capabilities to your professional skillset.




		When can I start my online doctorate in educational technology?
		


At Franklin, you can start your doctorate in instructional technology online now by applying for admission today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).




		How much will my Ed.D. Educational Technology degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $748 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of the total cost of your education technology doctorate (Ed.D. - Instructional Design Leadership degree with a focus on technology). If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a doctorate in educational technology online?
		


At Franklin, if you complete two courses per term, you could finish your online doctorate in educational technology in 2 years. Ambitious, hard-working students can complete their dissertation research in 1 year; however, it is not uncommon for students to extend their research beyond 12 months. The good news is that you determine how quickly you finish your dissertation research.






Transfer from Edison State Community College


		How do I request Edison State Community College transcripts? 
		


After you’ve applied to Franklin, request the transcripts from Edison State Community College (and any other of your previously attended schools) be sent to Franklin for evaluation. The best way to do this is to contact your previous school’s Office of the Registrar or Office of Records and ask specifically for an official, unaltered, sealed transcript to be sent directly to Franklin. Learn more about how to transfer credits here.
You can request Edison State Community College transcripts here.




		How do I transfer from Edison State Community College to Franklin? 
		


Transfer credit is a great way to finish your degree faster. Start by completing your free online application. Then submit your official transcripts for evaluation. For help at any time, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu or complete a Request for Information form online.




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring from Edison State Community College to Franklin?
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from Edison  State Community College. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at Edison . Your CCRMs is Erika Miller, for contact information click here.




		What is Edison State Community College and Franklin's 3+1 transfer program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs, where students can finish their associate degree at Edison and complete additional courses at Edison while concurrently enrolled at Franklin.




		How many credits can I transfer from Edison State Community College?
		


With Franklin's generous transfer credit policy, you'll get a lot more transfer credits. For a bachelor's degree, that means up to 94 credit hours. Estimate your transfer hours now, including how much your credits are worth and how quickly transfer credits can help you can finish your degree. Franklin does have eligibility and other transfer credit guidelines, so email us at transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		




Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		Do I have to come to campus for the admission process?
		


No, the admission’s process can be completed virtually which means you never have to come to campus.




		Do I have to come to campus if I take classes online?
		


No, all Franklin's bachelor's degrees can be completed 100% online.






B.S. Emergency Management & Homeland Security


		How long does it take to get a Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree?
		




This a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree program is specifically designed for Fire and Emergency Services or law enforcement personnel who wish to advance their leadership and administration skills. This program can help extend your capabilities for managing small- and large-scale emergency events while also providing an all-important framework for sound and effective decision-making.




		What can you do with a Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree, you'll earn a degree focused on emergency management and disaster response, as well as homeland security. In addition, you'll be well-positioned to take on a wide variety of entry-level positions within local, state or federal agencies -- including those responsible for disaster planning, mitigation and response, homeland security, investigations and other law enforcement functions.




		Why get a Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree, you'll be prepared to make entry into or advance your career by helping state and federal agencies ensure public safety and private security.




		What makes Franklin’s Emergency Management & Homeland Security degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by in-field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the emergency management and homeland security field themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






B.S. Energy Management


		How long does it take to get a Energy Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Energy Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Energy Management degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Energy Management degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Energy Management degree program emphasizes several facets of the energy and utility industries, including business, geology, petroleum engineering and law. This degree is ideal if you're interested in working with energy companies to secure leases for drilling and mineral rights, contracting with property owners and energy brokers, securing drilling joint ventures, or working in commodities marketing, trading or international negotiations.




		What can you do with a Energy Management degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Energy Management degree, you'll be well-prepared for a variety of energy and utility job titles, including landman, land negotiator, acquisitions and divestiture analyst, marketing trainee, energy trading analyst and financial analyst.




		Why get a Energy Management degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Energy Management degree, you'll be well-prepared for a career with oil and gas companies, energy trading firms, commercial and investment banks, utility companies and government agencies.




		What makes Franklin’s Energy Management degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by in-field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the energy management industry themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






B.S. Entrepreneurship


		How long does it take to get an Entrepreneurship degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Entrepreneurship degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Entrepreneurship degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Entrepreneurship degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Entrepreneurship degree program focuses on creating, launching and growing small and entrepreneurial enterprises -- for yourself or someone else. Our program combines academic and theoretical concepts with applied, real-world components so you're prepared to take on the unique business challenges of entrepreneurship.




		What can you do with an Entrepreneurship degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Entrepreneurship degree, you'll develop the critical skills needed to operate a successful business, including idea generation, opportunity recognition, resource acquisition and funding. You'll also develop other enterprising skills in such key business areas as marketing, operations, leadership and finance.




		Why get an Entrepreneurship degree?
		




When you graduate with a Franklin B.S. Entrepreneurship degree, you'll be poised to start, operate and grow a successful, small business enterpriese.




		What makes Franklin’s Entrepreneurship degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by successful entrepreneurs. Because our educators have excelled at running their own businesses, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your path to running your own business.






B.S. Exercise Science


		How long does it take to get an Exercise Science degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Exercise Science degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Exercise Science degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Exercise Science degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program that encompasses wellness, fitness, health, nutrition and weight control. Students examine theories behind these concepts through online coursework and complete an on-site field experience that provides experiential training to round out their degree.




		What can you do with an Exercise Science degree?
		


Exercise science graduates go on to become personal trainers, wellness directors, fitness instructors, or entrepreneurs. Some also go on to graduate school to pursue careers in healthcare.




		Why get an Exercise Science degree?
		


With a B.S. Exercise Science from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared to help individuals reach their health and fitness goals. Graduates will be prepared for leadership positions in sport, health and fitness and other allied health professions in a variety of settings.




		What makes Franklin’s Exercise Science degree unique?
		


With a B.S. Exercise Science from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared with the knowledge, skills and tools to impact the health and fitness of individuals and groups. Our online bachelor's degree program provides coursework in a convenient format that works for busy adults and 6 credit hours of required experiential learning that provides an opportunity to work alongside an in-field professional to gain hands on experience.






Experiential Learning


		 Is participation in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students approved on a term-by-term basis?
		


Yes, participation in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students is granted on a term-by-term basis, and approvals do not extend into future terms.




		What happens if I am dropped from GRAD 610 due to non-attendance?
		


Academic Consequences
Continuous engagement within the course is required for a successful experiential learning opportunity. If you stop participating in GRAD 610, you will be administratively withdrawn and assigned a failing Z grade for the course. If you are dropped from GRAD 610, you must notify your employer that you are no longer eligible for Experiential Learning for Graduate Students.
Immigration Consequences
Continued enrollment in and successful completion of GRAD 610 is a requirement to be authorized for CPT. OISP is required by regulation to update SEVIS with any change in employment. The CPT authorization may be shortened or canceled within SEVIS. You should consult your DSO immediately upon being dropped and notify your employer that your CPT authorization has ended.




		What happens if I lose the position associated with Experiential Learning for Graduate Students?
		


Academic Consequences
Successful completion of GRAD 610 requires a continuous experience in the approved position throughout the duration of the course. If you lose your position, you must notify the instructor and your academic advisor to withdraw from the course. If you find a new position, please refer to the FAQ about extending or beginning a new position for next steps.
Immigration Consequences
Continued enrollment in and successful completion of GRAD 610 are required to maintain CPT authorization. If you lose your position and are dropped from GRAD 610, OISP will be required to shorten or cancel the CPT authorization in SEVIS.




		How do I extend Experiential Learning for Graduate Students for my existing position?
		


Participation in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students, and the related enrollment in GRAD 610 and CPT authorization, is approved based on multiple criteria, including the position description and employment dates. To extend your existing, approved position, you must reapply to submit updated information through the application link. Upon approval, you will be enrolled in an additional section of GRAD 610 and re-authorized for CPT.




		What steps do I take if I am offered a new position?
		


Participation in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students, and the related enrollment in GRAD 610 and CPT authorization, is approved based on multiple criteria, including the position description. To begin a new position, you must reapply to submit updated information through the application link. Upon approval, you will be enrolled in an additional section of GRAD 610 and authorized for a new instance of CPT.




		How does Experiential Learning for Graduate Students impact future employment benefits for F-1 students?
		


The CPT authorization for Experiential Learning for Graduate Students can impact eligibility for post-completion OPT if a student has been employed more than 20 hours per week for 12 months or more. If a student is authorized for part-time CPT (20 hours or less per week), there is no impact on OPT.
In addition, a student may begin curricular practical training only after receiving his or her Form I-20 with the DSO endorsement and not before the CPT start date indicated on the form. Working without the endorsed I-20 or outside the employment dates listed on the I-20 can be reason for an OPT application to be denied. For detailed information about CPT, please see our Curricular Practical Training page.




		 Where can the position be located?
		


F-1 students must maintain a full course of study, including enrollment in face-to-face classes. If the position will prevent maintaining F-1 status, your application for Experiential Learning for Graduate Students will not be approved.




		Will GRAD 610 fulfill the full course of study requirements for F-1 students? 
		


Full course of study for an F-1 graduate student at Franklin University requires, at minimum, six credits per term with a maximum of one online course counting toward the six-credit requirement. As a one-credit course, GRAD 610 will not fulfill full course of study requirements for F-1 students and should not be used in place of a course for your degree program. Detailed information is available on the Curricular Practical Training page. 




		Can students participate in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students over the summer term? 
		


Yes; however, F-1 students must enroll in GRAD 610 - Experiential Learning for Graduate Studies during the summer term to qualify for CPT work authorization during dates that coincide with the summer term.




		Can students participate in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students during their final term? 
		


Yes; however, students may not postpone their degree graduation by enrolling in GRAD 610 - Experiential Learning for Graduate Studies after degree requirements have been met. CPT work authorization cannot extend beyond an F-1 student’s final term, and the Program End Date on students’ I-20s will not be extended to participate in Experiential Learning for Graduate Students. 




		How many hours per week can students work during Experiential Learning for Graduate Students? 
		


CPT for Experiential Learning for Graduate Students can be authorized for either full-time (more than 20 hours per week) or part-time (up to 20 hours per week) positions. If you have been authorized for full-time CPT for 12 months or more, you will be ineligible for post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT). If you have been authorized for part-time CPT, there is no impact on OPT.F-1 students should plan their courses carefully to ensure the hours dedicated to the position and GRAD 610 - Experiential Learning for Graduate Studies will not prevent them from maintaining a full course of study. 




		Does it matter if the position is paid or unpaid?
		


From both an academic and immigration perspective, compensation does not directly determine if a position qualifies as an experiential learning opportunity.  While pay may be an indication of the level of responsibility for the position, unpaid positions may be as academically valuable as paid positions. For F-1 students, if a position meets the definition of curricular practical training, you should apply for Experiential Learning regardless of whether the position is paid. Details about receiving monetary compensation are available on OISP's CPT page and taxes page.






FAQS


		What are the Goals of the Resume Review Program?
		


It is our goal that a member of our Expert Résumé Review team be able to provide you with the insight you need – from someone in the hiring community – to craft an engaging, appealing, and powerful job search document.
Through an individualized and in-depth résumé critique, we will provide you with the answers to your résumé development questions in order for you to create a document that commands results.




		What is a Resume Review?
		


A résumé review is a comprehensive critique of your résumé by a professional in the industry.  A member of Franklin’s résumé review team will identify the opportunities you have to create a more effective job search tool. This individual will review each section of your résumé and provide expert guidance on potential disqualifying factors, opportunities for improvement, and actionable strategies to better position your candidacy.




		What is Franklin’s Expert Resume Review Team?
		


Our expert Résumé Review team is comprised exclusively of volunteer human resources and résumé writing professionals with hands-on experience managing hiring processes and creating impactful personal branding tools.
Our team members possess valuable insight into key qualifiers and disqualifiers that candidates need to be aware of in today’s incredibly competitive and employer-friendly job market.
In addition, all members of Franklin University’s Expert Résumé Review Team have completed an extensive professional development workshop facilitated by Samantha Nolan – Certified Professional Résumé Writer and Syndicated ‘DearSam’ job search and résumé advice columnist – to ensure all reviewers are aware of leading-edge résumé development and strategic positioning techniques.




		What will the Expert Resume Review Team do?
		


Once you have submitted your résumé for review, your project will be assigned to one of the members of our Expert Résumé Review team.
Your reviewer will then thoroughly read and critique your résumé, presenting you with an in-depth written critique not only offering general tips and suggestions, but personalized recommendations to improve the effectiveness of your search.
Please note that résumé reviewers will not write your résumé, however they will provide you with the written feedback so you will be better equipped to craft your job search masterpiece.




		What are the Guidelines for Participation in  Resume Review?
		



Résumé reviews are limited to Franklin University students and alumni
Review participants can request only one (1) review per 30-day period
Participants are asked to complete a brief survey providing the Center for Career Development team with critical feedback into the success of the program







Financial Aid - Accepting My Awards


		How do I accept my awards?
		




Please visit our Applying For Aid page for details.




		What else do I need to submit other than my offer letter? 
		


If accepting federal student loans, you will need to complete and sign a Master Promissory Note (MPN) and complete the Loan Entrance Counseling




		Where can I complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN)?
		


You can complete the Master Promissory Note at Studentaid.gov.






Financial Aid - Applying for Aid


		When do I need to complete my Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)?
		


To maximize your award, we recommend that you complete the FAFSA each year as soon as it becomes available. You will import your tax information from the year before the prior tax year to complete your FAFSA (2022 taxes for the 2024-25 FAFSA or 2023 taxes for the 2025-26 FAFSA). Although you can complete the FAFSA any time during the term, to be considered for maximum eligibility you must complete it before the posted deadlines.For 2025-26, the priority deadlines are:Summer Trimester: March 15, 2025Fall Trimester: June 15, 2025Spring Trimester: October 1, 2025Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.For more information, please visit Applying for Aid.




		What is a Federal Student Aid (FSA) ID?
		




An FSA ID is a registered username and password for signing into certain Federal Student Aid websites, including Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®), StudentLoans.gov and My Federal Student Aid. Your FSA ID is used to electronically sign Federal Student Aid documents, access your personal records and make legally binding obligations. Please keep your information secure. Parents who are required to sign a child's FAFSA need their own FSA ID, however, the parent's ID can be used to sign more than one child's application.




		Where do I get my FSA ID?
		


Visit the FSA ID log in page to create your FSA ID. Questions? Please call 1.800.4.FED.AID.




		How do I complete the FAFSA?
		




The fastest way is to complete the FAFSA online here. You may also search and download a printable form and mail it in, or complete an application by phone at 1.800.4.FED.AID.
Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.




		Where can I get assistance to complete the FAFSA?
		




You have three options for FAFSA assistance:

1. Real-time help from the Federal Student Aid Information Center (FSAIC) when completing the application online. Just click on the Contact Us tab.
2. Phone assistance by calling FSAIC at 1-800-4-FED-AID (TTY 1-800-730-8913).
3. In-person help from a Student Financial Services Counselor at Franklin. Please bring your FSA ID and application documentation, such as your federal tax returns.
Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.




		What is IRS Data Retrieval?
		




IRS Data Retrieval is the simple way to import your tax information into the FAFSA. Just use IRS Data Retrieval when completing or correcting a FAFSA. IRS Data Retrieval is available for download to the FAFSA approximately two weeks after electronically filing your federal tax return, or eight weeks after filing a paper return.




		What is the Student Aid Index (SAI)?
		


The Student Aid Index (SAI) is an eligibility index number that your college's or career school's financial aid office uses to determine how much federal student aid you would receive if you attended the school.




		What is a FAFSA Submission Summary (FSS)?
		




The FSS summarizes the information provided on the FAFSA, including the SAI and Data Release Number (DRN). You will receive your FSS by email if you provided a valid e-mail address on the FAFSA. Look for the SAI in the upper right-hand portion of the electronic or paper version of the FSS.




		Can I just apply for financial assistance from the State of Ohio and not complete a FAFSA?
		


No. You must complete the FAFSA to be considered for state funds. Maximum state and federal eligibility is determined according to the SAI reported on the FSS.




		Are graduate students eligible for state/federal grants?
		




No. But you may be eligible for unsubsidized federal student loans. Talk to Student Financial Services to learn more.






FAQs


		What is the Community College Alliance (CCA)?
		




CCA is partnership between Franklin University and more than 135 community and technical colleges across the U.S. As one of the largest programs of its kind, Franklin's CCA offers a wide variety of bachelor's degree programs -- including 3+1 transfer so you can take a combination of courses at a community college, or onsite or online with Franklin.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		




Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		Is Financial Aid available?
		




Yes. Talk with one of our helpful Financial Aid staff members about Franklin's commitment to helping you fund your education.




		What is Franklin’s 3+1 Transfer Program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs from many of our community college partners, where students can finish their associate degree at their community college and complete additional courses at the community college while concurrently enrolled at Franklin.




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring to Franklin? 
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from our partner community colleges. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at the community college. CCRM’s can be contacted directly by emailing transferinfo@franklin.edu.






Financial Aid - Dependency Status


		What criteria determine dependency status?
		


Current FAFSA rules for independent status include the following:Must be born before Jan. 1, 2001 for 2024-25.If under age, must provide proof of emancipation as a minor or legal guardianship immediately before reaching age of adult (18 in Ohio).Married as of the date of FAFSA application filing. (Franklin does not process mid-year marital status.)Will be a graduate or professional student at the start of the award year.Currently serving on active military duty for purposes other than training.Are a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces.Claim dependents (other than spouse) for which you provide more than half support.Were, at any time since age 13, had no living biological or adoptive parent or was a dependent or ward of the court. (Note: For federal student aid purposes, someone who is incarcerated is not considered a ward of the court.)Have been determined, at any time since July 1, 2023 for the 2024-25 FAFSA, to be an unaccompanied youth who is/was homeless or self-supporting and at risk of being homeless.If you do not meet any of these requirements, you are considered dependent and are required to submit parental financial information on your FAFSA and any other applicable financial aid documents.




		Can I appeal a dependency status?
		




Perhaps. You may be considered for appeal if:

• You have mitigating circumstances and supporting documentation that you are no longer in contact with or receive financial support from your parents.
• You are still in contact with your parents, but they are unwilling to provide financial information for FAFSA. Please contact the Student Financial Services Office to schedule an appointment to a Parental Non-Disclosure Appeal.

Schedule an appointment with a Student Financial Services Counselor to discuss appealing the decision.




		If I get married, can I change my marital status on the FAFSA?
		




We're sorry, but no, Franklin cannot process a mid-year marital status change. Instead, we use the marital status reported on the day you completed your FAFSA.






Financial Aid - Loan Information


		What is Student Loan Entrance Counseling and why must I complete this process?
		




Entrance counseling is required by federal regulations for all first-time borrowers. It provides an overview of the Federal Loans Program and discusses specific topics related to types of loans, interest rates, borrower rights, responsibilities and more. In addition, your session will give you tips and tools for creating an educational expenses budget. You can log into studentaid.gov to complete Entrance Counseling.




		What is Student Loan Exit Counseling and why must I complete this process when I am in school or returning to school?
		




When you stop attending school or drop below half-time, Student Loan Exit Counseling is federally mandated -- regardless of whether you intend to return. You can log into studentaid.gov to complete your Exit Counseling.




		What is the difference between Subsidized and Unsubsidized Direct Loans?
		




The difference between Subsidized and Unsubsidized Direct Federal Loans is that the federal government pays the interest on a Subsidized loan -- as long you are enrolled in school at least half-time. For Unsubsidized Loans, you are responsible for the loan even while enrolled in school (although you do have the option to pay the interest or defer payment until after graduation).




		Is there a limit on the total amount of loan funds I can receive throughout a single academic year or total years of enrollment?
		


Yes. There are federally mandated aggregate limits that you may not exceed, which are predicated on both your grade level and dependency status. 




		Do I have to accept all of the funds detailed on my offer letter?
		




No, you do not. While all grant funds are automatically available to you, you may accept a reduced amount of funds at your discretion. The following stipulations do, however, apply:
• Funds must be divided evenly over all of the packaged terms in an academic year.
• The minimum loan amount you may accept is $200.
• All subsidized funds must be accepted before accepting/reducing unsubsidized loans.
• To reduce funds, you must indicate the revised amount on your offer letter or notate a full decline of the loan. Please follow the instructions on your Offer Letter. Contact a Franklin University Student Financial Services Counselor if you have any questions about reducing your loan amounts.






Financial Aid - myFranklin Account


		Where can I access information regarding direct deposit?
		




You can access your direct deposit information or other chosen method of refunds by visiting http://bankmobiledisbursements.com/refundchoices/.




		When can I expect to have access to the funds for the refund I was issued on myFranklin?
		




Check your myFranklin account and access Self-Service. If it indicates the refund was issued, you may expect to receive a refund based on the refund preference you selected with BMTX, Inc. For more information about refund timing and BMTX, Inc., visit this link: http://bankmobiledisbursements.com/refundchoices/.




		How can I get a Book Voucher?
		


BNC Virtual, a service of MBS Direct, LLC will send you an email if you qualify for a book voucher.
 
 






Financial Aid - Other Important Questions


		How do I defer my loans while currently enrolled in school?
		




For Direct and FFEL Loans, please contact your loan servicer. Don't know who your loan servicer is? Look it up here.




		Why does my offer letter indicate that I am getting more grant funds than were actually posted to my account?
		


Franklin awards financial aid based on full-time enrollment, unless otherwise indicated on your Offer Letter. Any change in enrollment may impact eligibility. Grant funds are pro-rated to your current enrollment; therefore, the amount on your offer letter may differ from your actual eligibility. Contact our Student Financial Services department for information and updates to your financial aid eligibility. Note: CCA students are awarded financial aid based upon full time enrollment at their community college until confirmation of their actual enrolled hours has been received by our office.




		If my financial situation has changed since filing the FAFSA, are there any additional funds that I can receive?
		




Perhaps. Please complete a Special Circumstance Appeal to start a file review. Situations that may impact your funding include: job loss, divorce or extremely high medical costs. If you would like to appeal, please make an appointment with a Franklin Student Financial Services Counselor to get an appeal form and discuss your appeal requirements. Note: Before making an appointment, please wait at least 10 weeks after your financial circumstances have changed.






Financial Aid - Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)


		What is Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)?
		




SAP means that you must meet certain academic standards if you are to maintain eligibility for financial assistance.




		What happens if I do not meet SAP?
		




For a first offense, you are assigned a WARNING status (except MTF). If you fail to maintain all of the conditional stipulations of your WARNING, your status will be updated to WITHDRAWN. If you exceed MTF at anytime, your SAP status will be updated to WITHDRAWN.




		Can I appeal my SAP status?
		




You cannot appeal a WARNING status however, you may appeal a WITHDRAWN status if there were documented extenuating circumstances. You may receive up to two approved appeals throughout your academic career at Franklin University. If you have two previously approved appeals, your current appeal will be automatically denied.




		What will my updated status be once a decision has been made?
		




If approved, your status will be updated to PROBATION for one trimester or, in certain circumstances, to ACADEMIC PLAN for three trimesters. If denied, your status will remain as WITHDRAWN.






Financial Aid - Verification


		What is verification?
		




Verification is the process in which the Financial Aid office compares the information provided on your FAFSA with the information reported on your, your spouse's or your parent's federal taxes, W-2s and/or our verification forms. You may be selected for verification by the government or through our internal selection process. If selected for verification, you will not be considered eligible for federal or state financial aid until all documentation is received and reviewed.




		How will I know if I'm selected for verification?
		




You'll receive an email from us, notifying you of required documentation. You can also view required documentation on your Self-Service account. 






Financial Aid Verification Process - FAQs


		What is verification?
		




Verification is the process in which the Financial Aid office compares the information provided on your FAFSA with the information reported on your, your spouse's or your parent's federal taxes, W-2s and/or our verification forms. You may be selected for verification by the government or through our internal selection process. If selected for verification, you will not be considered eligible for federal or state financial aid until all documentation is received and reviewed.




		How will I know if I'm selected for verification?
		




You'll receive an email from us, notifying you of required documentation. You can also view required documentation on your Self-Service account. 




		What criteria determine dependency status?
		


Current FAFSA rules for independent status include the following:Must be born before Jan. 1, 2001 for 2024-25.If under age, must provide proof of emancipation as a minor or legal guardianship immediately before reaching age of adult (18 in Ohio).Married as of the date of FAFSA application filing. (Franklin does not process mid-year marital status.)Will be a graduate or professional student at the start of the award year.Currently serving on active military duty for purposes other than training.Are a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces.Claim dependents (other than spouse) for which you provide more than half support.Were, at any time since age 13, had no living biological or adoptive parent or was a dependent or ward of the court. (Note: For federal student aid purposes, someone who is incarcerated is not considered a ward of the court.)Have been determined, at any time since July 1, 2023 for the 2024-25 FAFSA, to be an unaccompanied youth who is/was homeless or self-supporting and at risk of being homeless.If you do not meet any of these requirements, you are considered dependent and are required to submit parental financial information on your FAFSA and any other applicable financial aid documents.




		Can I appeal a dependency status?
		




Perhaps. You may be considered for appeal if:

• You have mitigating circumstances and supporting documentation that you are no longer in contact with or receive financial support from your parents.
• You are still in contact with your parents, but they are unwilling to provide financial information for FAFSA. Please contact the Student Financial Services Office to schedule an appointment to a Parental Non-Disclosure Appeal.

Schedule an appointment with a Student Financial Services Counselor to discuss appealing the decision.




		If I get married, can I change my marital status on the FAFSA?
		




We're sorry, but no, Franklin cannot process a mid-year marital status change. Instead, we use the marital status reported on the day you completed your FAFSA.






A.S. Financial Management


		How long does it take to get a Financial Management associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Financial Management in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Financial Management associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Financial Management associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Financial Management associate degree?
		




This is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Financial Management, you'll gain foundational knowledge in finance principles, markets, institutions and investments.




		What can you do with a Financial Management associate degree?
		




With an A.S. Financial Management from Franklin, you'll have the skills required to obtain an entry-level position in financial services, such as financial associate and financial analyst.




		Why get a Financial Management associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program can help open you up to entry-level employment in financial services, investments and banking. Plus, an A.S. Financial Management from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Financial Management program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Financial Management associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in financial management. Here you'll gain foundational knowledge and skills to qualify you for entry-level finance jobs. And, if you decide to pursue your bachelor's degree in a financial management degree program, your A.S. Financial Management will give you an edge towards completion.






B.S. Financial Management


		How long does it take to get a Financial Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Financial Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Financial Management degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Financial Management degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Financial Management degree program provides a solid foundation in financial and investment principles to prepare you for a wide variety of financial careers, including bank manager, financial analyst, trader and portfolio manager.




		What can you do with a Financial Management degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Financial Management degree, you'll have an excellent foundation to pursue graduate study in business or law, or advance your career in business financial management, investment management, international finance or financial services.




		Why get a Financial Management degree?
		




There are lots of great reasons to earn this degree, including opening yourself up to new and better career opportunities. Franklin's B.S. Financial Management degree program introduces current concepts, analytical tools and information resources from a number of other disciplines, including accounting, economics and information management to help further your decision-making skills relevant to a career involving funding, budgets and business opportunity assessment.




		What makes Franklin’s Financial Management degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking online courses, as well as being taught by field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the financial management industry themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






B.S. Financial Planning


		How long does it take to get a Financial Planning degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Financial Planning degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Financial Planning degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Financial Planning degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Financial Planning degree program can prepare you for a career in developing comprehensive strategies that help individuals, families and small business owners reach their financial and retirement goals.




		What can you do with a Financial Planning degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Financial Planning degree, you'll be well-prepared to sit for the Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) exam and become a comprehensive financial planner who helps people manage their finances to achieve their personal financial goals.




		Why get a Financial Planning degree?
		




With Franklin's bachelor degree program in financial planning, you'll be introduced to all the major aspects of personal finance, including planning for retirement, saving for college, making sound investment choices and lowering income tax liabilities. Our B.S. Financial Planning degree program prepares you to help your clients make informed financial strategies for long-term financial success.




		What makes Franklin’s Financial Planning degree unique?
		




Franklin’s B.S. Financial Planning degree program provides a hands-on and responsive education to help make you job-ready from day one. Franklin's curriculum is designed for the busy, working adult, with courses that can advance your knowledge and skills to meet the demands of today's financial planning industry. At Franklin, you learn both the “what” of financial planning, as well as the “how” and the “why.” You'll also have the opportunity to provide financial planning counseling to real clients through an IRS-supported community service program, as well as participate in activities and networking events of the Financial Planning Association (FPA).




		Does Franklin's financial planning bachelor degree program satisfy the Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) Board requirements? 
		




It does! Franklin’s B.S. Financial Planning is a CFP Board-registered program. Once you complete our program, you're immediately eligible to sit for the CFP exam.




		Does Franklin's degree program cover what’s tested in the Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) exam? 
		




Yes, Franklin’s financial planning curriculum is especially designed to cover the CFP's principal knowledge topic and subtopic categories. View all 80 CFP exam categories.




		I have a CPA and/or other designation. Do I have to complete all seven of Franklin's courses before sitting for the Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) exam?
		




It depends. The CFP Board, not Franklin, determines which academic degrees and professional credentials fulfill the education coursework required for CFP® certification. If you hold one of the CFP Board-approved credentials or degrees, you may be eligible to take the exam after completing Franklin’s financial planning capstone course. Check this list of CFP-approved degrees or credentials to see if yours qualifies.
 




		What’s the difference between majoring in finance and majoring in financial planning? 
		




Our financial planning degree program is designed to prepare you to become a Certified Financial Planner® (CFP) who works with personal finance clients on their investments, tax strategy, debt management, retirement, insurance and estate planning. Our financial management degree program prepares you for a career in corporate finance or to take on a business analysis-type position within a government agency.




		Is Franklin's B.S. Financial Planning degree program accredited?
		




Yes, by the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) -- that means our program was examined by trained evaluators to meet IACBE's eight quality standards.






A.S. Forensic Accounting


		How long does it take to get a Forensic Accounting associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Forensic Accounting in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Forensic Accounting associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Forensic Accounting associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Forensic Accounting associate degree?
		




This is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Forensic Accounting degree program, you'll learn the fundamental principles of fraud investigation and forensic evidence as it relates to fraud prevention and detection in business.




		What can you do with a Forensic Accounting associate degree?
		




With an A.S. Forensic Accounting degree, you'll learn the fundamentals of fraud examination, detection, control and prevention, which will prepare you for a career in business, accounting, criminal justice or public administration.




		Why get a Forensic Accounting associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program can help open you up to entry-level employment as a financial detective in the exciting and growing field of corporate fraud protection. Plus, an A.S. Forensic Accounting from Franklin can help you seamlessly transition to our B.S. Forensic Accounting program, so you can grow academically as you expand your professional career path.




		What makes Franklin’s Forensic Accounting associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in forensic accounting. Here you'll gain foundational knowledge and skills to qualify you for entry-level jobs in an exciting and growing field. And, if you decide to pursue your bachelor's degree in a forensic or business accounting degree program, your A.S. Forensic Accounting degree will give you an edge towards completion.






B.S. Forensic Accounting


		How long does it take to get a Forensic Accounting degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Forensic Accounting degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Forensic Accounting degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Forensic Accounting degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Forensic Accounting degree program provides foundational learning in fraud investigation with a special emphasis on the accounting function. In this program, you'll be introduced to the characteristics of fraud, the rules of forensic evidence for identifying and investigating fraud, and the business controls and systems that support fraud prevention and detection.




		What can you do with a Forensic Accounting degree?
		




With a B.S. Forensic Accounting from Franklin, you'll gain foundational skills in fraud examination, detection, control and prevention, preparing you for a career as a "financial detective" such as forensic accountant, internal auditor and corporate accounting officer.




		Why get a Forensic Accounting degree?
		




There are plenty of good reasons to earn this degree -- about 6.3 billion of them. That's the estimated dollar figure from the 2016 Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse for total loss by fraud. So whether you're interested in accounting or business administration, organizations need professionals with bachelor's degrees who understand how to prevent and mitigate fraudulent activities.




		What makes Franklin’s Forensic Accounting degree unique?
		




Franklin University's bachelor of science in Forensic Accounting degree program is designed and taught by highly credentialed and experienced professionals from the fields of accounting, auditing, business, criminal justice, forensic examination, internal auditing and law. Our Ph.D., JD, MBA, MSA, MA and MS-level instructors hold a variety of professional certifications, including certified public accountant (CPA), certified internal auditor (CIA) and certified fraud examiner (CFE). That means you learn how to apply the academic concepts and theories you learn in the classroom to solve real-world business problems.






Franklin Alerts


		What is Franklin University Alerts?
		


Franklin University Alerts is a text messaging and email notification system that will notify registered users when there is a major emergency, crisis situation or disaster, or a weather emergency closing or delay for the Franklin University locations.




		How do I sign up for Franklin University Alerts?
		


Franklin University faculty, staff and students automatically have their Franklin University email addresses enrolled in the Franklin University Alerts system. The Franklin University Alerts system will send an email to registered accounts notifying the users that the email is registered in the system and provides the user the opportunity to “opt-out” of the system and not receive future notifications.




		I am registered for Franklin University Alerts. What now?
		


"Once registered, users may log in to their Franklin University Alerts account to input additional email addresses and mobile phone numbers.
Users may login to their account here.
The account login username is the first part of the user’s email address, located before the @ symbol (e.g. user01@franklin.edu). To obtain the account password, select the link: “Forgot Password?” At the next screen enter the user’s login Username (example: user01) into the login box and click on the “Send Password” button. The Franklin University Alerts system will send a temporary password to the user email account registered in the system.
Users may then access their account information by returning to the login page and entering the account Username and the temporary password provided via e-mail"




		A message was sent out but I didn't receive mine until a few hours later?
		


Once Franklin sends an alert through Franklin University Alerts, the message is sent to a large number of telephone and email service providers. These providers control how quickly messages are delivered to phones and email mailboxes. Delayed message delivery is almost always due to the telephone/email provider and how the message has been processed through their network. Emergency information and weather delays or cancellations are also posted on the Franklin University website.




		The messages that I am receiving are 'cut-off'.
		


Certain cellular providers limit the length of a text message. Some carriers deliver over-length text messages as two or more. Some simply discard the portion of the message that is too long. In the event that you receive a Franklin University Alerts and it is 'cut off,' you can view the entire message by logging in to your account. Every effort will be made by Franklin to make the messages as brief as possible to avoid this problem.




		Can I change my contact preferences?
		


Yes. You can change your account settings to add different email addresses or phone numbers.




		How do I stop receiving Franklin University Alerts?
		


Please log in to your account to opt-out. You may opt-out of email alerts only, SMS alerts only, or the entire service.




		Will I receive unsolicited messages (SPAM) on my mobile phone or email account?
		


No. Franklin University Alerts enforces a "Zero Spam" policy which clearly prohibits unsolicited messages.




		Does your service work on multiple cell phone networks?
		


Yes. Franklin University Alerts is a cross-carrier service. 




		Do I need to install software on my phone?
		


No. Franklin University Alerts uses the industry standard SMS text messaging protocol to send messages to your phone. However, your mobile phone plan must include text messaging to use this service.




		Will this cost me anything?
		


Depending on your wireless carrier provider and the plan you have, they may charge you a nominal fee (perhaps ten cents per message) to receive SMS text messages. If you have an unlimited text messaging plan, there should be no additional charge. Check with your provider to be sure. Franklin University does not charge for this service.






B.S. Healthcare Administration


		How long does it take to get a bachelor’s in healthcare administration degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a healthcare administration bachelor’s degree?
		


 Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my online bachelor’s degree in healthcare administration degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a bachelor’s degree in healthcare administration?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Healthcare Administration degree program is designed to equip you with in-demand leadership tools and transferable skills to enter or advance in the field of healthcare, especially as it relates to quality of care outcomes.




		What can you do with a healthcare administration bachelor’s degree?
		


With a B.S. Healthcare Administration degree from Franklin, you'll have the knowledge, skills and tools required to contribute to healthcare systems and informatics, operations management, quality management, community health and leadership.




		Why get a bachelor’s degree in healthcare administration online?
		


As healthcare continues to evolve in both delivery and practice, the industry will need more qualified professionals to confront the issues and develop innovative solutions. With a B.S. Healthcare Administration degree from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared to tackle the complexities of the healthcare system and address them with market-relevant opportunities.




		What makes Franklin’s bachelor’s in healthcare administration unique?
		


At Franklin, our courses are taught by industry leaders and real-world professionals using a continually updated curriculum to help ensure real-time application of what you learn. That means that when you graduate from Franklin, you're strategically positioned to enter the healthcare industry with practical skills and relevant knowledge.






Helpdesk - Account & Password


		I recently applied to Franklin University. What do I do now? 
		


Are you a recent applicant wondering about next steps? Please see the links below.
Recent Undergrad Applicants: Click Here
Recent Graduate Applicants: Click Here




		I forgot my password. How do I log in? 
		


For password reset instructions: Click Here.
View the full self help portal: Click Here




		How can I get an unofficial transcript?
		


For more information about unofficial and official transcripts: Click Here.
 






Helpdesk - E-Textbooks and Grammarly FAQs


		Where can I find training for my e-textbook?
		


We have plenty of documentation about eTextbook access and eTextbook troubleshooting. Please see the following section of our self help library. Click Here




		What is Grammarly? How can I use it?
		


Grammarly is a writing assistance tool to assist with writing effectiveness. For more information about Grammarly and other student resources: Click Here






Helpdesk - Microsoft Teams - FAQs


		How do I use Microsoft Teams to meet with classmates?
		


Microsoft Teams is a student and faculty solution for chat, voice call, video call, and collaboration. Your access to Microsoft Teams is granted through your student email address. To learn more about Microsoft Teams, please see the following training article: Click Here




		How can I use Microsoft Teams to meet with my advisor?
		


Instructions for scheduling an appointment with your Advisor: Click Here 
Instructions for conducting a virtual appointment with your Advisor: Click Here






Office365 Email and Office365 Application


		Can I get my e-mail on my iPhone or iPad?
		


Yes you can. For more information: Click Here




		Can I get my e-mail on my Android phone?
		


Yes you can. For more information: Click Here




		How can I download Microsoft Office for free?
		


Because of Microsoft’s partnership with Franklin University, the full version of Microsoft Office is available to active students and faculty free of charge. For more information: Click Here






Helpdesk - Other FAQs


		Is there any storage space available to me so that I can store and organize my assignments?
		


OneDrive is cloud storage space you can use to store files. If you are a current student or faculty member, you will have access to this service as part of your Microsoft email license. For more information: Click Here
The Help Desk recommends that OneDrive be the official storage source for completed homework and classwork.




		How do I retrieve grades for employer verification?
		


See the following Help Desk Solution for retrieving grades for employer verification: Click Here




		How do I schedule an appointment with my advisor?
		


See the following Help Desk Solution for scheduling an appointment with your advisor: Click Here






Helpdesk - Taking Courses


		How do I submit assignments in Canvas?
		


You can upload your paper into Canvas directly. For more information: Click Here




		What is Turnitin? Why is it required for some assignments?
		


Turnitin is an originality verification tool that instructors and students can utilize to check for originality within a document. Since plagiarism is not always intentional, this tool helps students protect themselves from possible plagiarism scenarios but also helps instructors intentional or unintentional attempts to plagiarize.
 
Canvas has built in integration with the Turnitin plagiarism check tool. Many assignments have Turnitin integration enabled. When enabled, submitting the assignment through Canvas also applies the Turnitin plagiarism check to that assignment. 
For more training and information, click here. 




		How do I navigate through my courses?
		


Students taking courses will log into my.franklin.edu. 
All classes are housed in the Canvas learning management system. For navigation questions, please click here. 
 






B.S. Human Resources Management


		How long does it take to get a Human Resources Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Human Resources Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Human Resources Management degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Human Resources Management degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Human Resources Management degree program prepares you for all aspects of workforce acquisition and management, including candidate analysis, compensation and training.




		What can you do with a Human Resources Management degree?
		




With a B.S. Human Resources Management degree from Franklin, you'll have the skill set required for a career in training and development, employee relations, compensation, benefits, performance management and organizational development.




		Why get a Human Resources Management degree?
		




Being a self-described "people person" isn't enough to qualify anyone for a career dealing with personnel problems. But if you're the kind of person who enjoys administering a personal touch in a professional manner, then a bachelor's degree in human resources could be for you. Franklin's B.S. Human Resources Management degree program is ideal for anyone who's personable, friendly and wants to help solve employee-related problems and staffing issues.




		What makes Franklin’s Human Resources Management degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Human Resources Management degree program is anchored by its highly relevant curriculum, recognized by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) as recommended course content for today's HR professional. Adding to that endorsement are Franklin's HR faculty members, academically qualified and industry-experienced leaders, who teach you how to apply what you learn for on-the-job success.






B.S. Information Systems


		How long does it take to get an Information Systems degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Information Systems degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Information Systems degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Information Systems degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Information Systems degree program covers a wide range of technology-related subjects, including networking and software design, to equip you to help organizations leverage technology for competitive advantage, growth and profitability.




		What can you do with an Information Systems degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Information Systems degree from Franklin, you're prepared to start or advance your computer information systems career equipped with the knowledge and skills to hold such job titles as business intelligence analyst, technical liaison and information systems project manager.




		Why get an Information Systems degree?
		




Being a "problem solver" is not just a talent, it's a learned skill. If you want to work with people to help solve business problems using technology, Franklin's B.S. Information Systems may be right for you. Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning this degree may lead to new and better career opportunities.




		What makes Franklin’s Information Systems degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Information Systems degree program provides a strong core of information systems courses augmented by your choice of specialization to meet the demands of information systems organizations today -- and tomorrow.






A.S. Information Technology


		How long does it take to get a Information Technology associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Information Technology in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Information Technology associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Information Technology degree associate cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Information Technology associate degree?
		




This is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Information Technology, you'll gain fundamental technical skills and enhance your critical thinking and communication effectiveness.




		What can you do with a Information Technology associate degree?
		




The A.S. Information Technology degree from Franklin introduces you to fundamental IT topics, including programming, databases, networking, information systems, cybersecurity and web development, preparing you for such entry-level positions as IT specialist, security specialist, technical support specialist, help desk specialist or network specialist.




		Why get a Information Technology associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program prepares you for a job now in the fast-growing IT industry. An A.S. Information Technology from Franklin not only opens you up to gaining immediate experience in the field, it also prepares you for our bachelor's degree program if you decide to pursue a higher-level position requiring a B.S. Information Technology degree.




		What makes Franklin’s Information Technology associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in information technology. Here you'll gain foundational knowledge and skills to qualify you for entry-level IT jobs. And, if you decide to pursue your bachelor's degree in IT or a related program, such as information security or web development, your A.S. Information Technology will give you an edge towards completion.






B.S. Information Technology


		How long does it take to get an Information Technology degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Information Technology degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Information Technology degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Information Technology degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Information Technology degree program offers both general education and technical courses. You'll learn to think critically and communicate more effectively, as well as acquire the skills needed for network and systems administration, infrastructure management, information security, database administration and IT project management.




		What can you do with an Information Technology degree?
		




With a B.S. Information Technology (IT) degree from Franklin, you'll gain foundational knowledge in a variety of IT-related topics, such as programming, cloud computer and information systems, preparing you for such job titles as IT specialist, security engineer, network engineer, project manager, virtualization engineer, database administrator, Windows administrator or Linux administrator.




		Why get an Informational Technology degree?
		




If you're ready to advance in your career, a B.S. Information Technology (IT) degree from Franklin could be right for you. This bachelor's degree program will not only help you expand your understanding of IT and each of its components, it will help you bring valued-added, strategic solutions to your organization's IT programs, processes and personnel.




		What makes Franklin’s Information Technology degree unique?
		




Our degree has at least two important distinctions: transfer credit and specialization. We're a transfer-friendly school where you can finish your bachelor's degrees faster by transferring up to 94 semester hours of previously-earned credits from a community college. Plus, our curriculum adds to your foundational knowledge of programming, networking, security and databases with advanced information systems, networking, systems administration, project management and cloud computing courses. Differentiate yourself even more by choosing two electives from advanced offerings in project management, analytics, security and systems administration.






Smart Start Scholarship FAQs


		What is the Smart Start Scholarship?
		


The Smart Start Scholarship is an automatic scholarship awarded to new Franklin University students in designated academic programs. The tuition-only award is disbursed equally over multiple terms until the maximum amount is met. Students must remain in good financial aid standing and maintain at least half-time enrollment status in an eligible degree program to meet eligibility requirements. The Smart Start Scholarship is non-refundable and cannot be combined with partnership discounts or other institutional scholarships.  




		 Who qualifies for the Smart Start Scholarship?    
		


New Franklin University students in the following programs will automatically be awarded the Smart Start Scholarship. There’s no application required.                                               Master of Education in Educational Leadership Higher Education (M.Ed.) ($2,000)Master of Education in Educational Leadership K-12 Building Level Leadership (M.Ed.) ($2,000)Master of Education in Educational Leadership Principal Licensure (M.Ed.) ($2,000)MSN-AGPCNP ($2,000)M.S. in Cybersecurity ($2,000)Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)-AGPCNP ($2,000)DNP-FNP ($2,000)DNP-Leadership ($1,500)DNP-PMHNP ($2,000)




		Are Franklin University alumni eligible for the Smart Start Scholarship? 
		


No. The Smart Start Scholarship is for new Franklin University students; therefore, alumni are not eligible and should consider the Road to Graduate School Scholarship, a scholarship for alumni of undergraduate programs who pursue their first master’s degree with Franklin.  




		How is the Smart Start Scholarship disbursed?
		


The award applies to tuition only and is disbursed equally over multiple terms in $1,000 increments until the maximum amount is met. 




		Can the Smart Start Scholarship be combined with other scholarships?
		


No. Students cannot receive multiple institutional scholarships. If a student is eligible for multiple institutional scholarships, they will be awarded the one that provides the greatest financial benefit.




		How do students maintain their eligibility? 
		


Students must submit a FAFSA, remain in good financial aid standing and maintain at least half-time enrollment status in an eligible degree program to meet eligibility requirements.




		Can the Smart Start Scholarship be combined with partnership discounts?
		


No. If students qualify for a partnership discount, no Smart Start Scholarship will be awarded.






B.S. Interactive Media Design


		How long does it take to get an Interactive Media Design degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Interactive Media Design degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Interactive Media Design degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Interactive Media Design degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Interactive Media Design degree program is designed to equip you to deliver technology-based solutions that help people engage data in ways that make their professional and personal lives easier. In this program, you'll learn about how to manipulate electronic text, graphics, pictures, moving images and sound into a structured digital environment.




		What can you do with an Interactive Media Design degree?
		




With a B.S. Interactive Media Design degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared to join a variety of creative teams as an interactive media designer, online journalist, social media developer and more, creating interactive projects and solutions, including websites, games and mobile apps.




		Why get an Interactive Media Design degree?
		




As one of the fastest-growing fields today, interactive media design can give you several paths from which you can launch or advance your career. With a bachelor's degree in interactive media design from Franklin, you'll have the skills and education to become a web designer, graphic designer, animator, illustrator or programmer.




		What makes Franklin’s Interactive Media Design degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Interactive Media Design program is rooted in a project-based curriculum -- that means you learn by working with real clients to design and develop interactive solutions to actual business problems. In addition to gaining practical experience, you'll graduate with a professional portfolio to showcase your capabilities.






Research FAQs


		Does my research require IRB review?
		


For purposes of determining which projects require IRB review, Franklin University adheres to the definitions of ‘research’ and ‘human subject’ presented in the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Code of Federal Regulations (45 CFR part 46):
Research means a systematic investigation, including research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge [45 CFR 46.102(l)]. 
Human subject means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducts research and (i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. [45 CFR 46.102(e)(1)].
See also the guidance on Determining If an Activity Requires IRB Review and Approval.
 




		Where can I find more information about the regulations and human subjects research?
		


The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) regulations at 45 CFR part 46 stipulate substantive and procedural requirements for investigators and institutions engaged in research. You can read the Code of Federal Regulations regarding the Protection of Human Subjects here.
Check out the Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) to learn more about protecting the rights, welfare, and wellbeing of human subjects involved in research.




		I'm a DNP student. Do I need to go through the IRB?
		


Probably not. The Franklin University Evidence-Based Project Review Team will review all DNP Scholarly Project proposals to ensure, among other things, that they do not meet the federal definition of human subjects research (per 45 CFR Part 46) and require IRB review; however, IRB review may be required in some cases. See the DNP Scholarly Project and Institutional Review Board (IRB) guidance for more information.






Learning Commons - CLEP Questions


		What is a CLEP?  
		




CLEP stands for College Level Examination Program. It is a standardized test that awards college credit for a passing grade in lieu of taking a class. Contact your academic advisor about your eligibility and the amount of available credit. 




		Are CLEP study guides available?
		




Yes. You may borrow the CLEP Official Study Guide from a library or reference the one at the Learning Commons. Learn more about CLEP here.




		How do I register, pay for, and schedule a CLEP?
		




You must first register, pay for and schedule a CLEP before taking it.




		How much does a CLEP cost?
		




Each CLEP examination is $100 and includes an $80 exam fee plus a $20 administration fee. 




		How do I receive credit for taking a CLEP?
		




Results are available immediately, however, results will not appear on your transcript for three to four weeks after your exam. Awarded credit goes toward degree completion hours but does not affect your GPA. 






Learning Commons - FUPE Questions


		What is a FUPE?
		




A FUPE, or Franklin University Proficiency Exam, is a test-based alternative to classroom credit. Contact your academic advisor to see which, if any, FUPEs you may be eligible for. 




		Are FUPE study guides available?
		




Yes. Pick up printed study guides at the Learning Commons, or access them by looking under the “FUPE University Proficiency Tests” information on the Testing page.




		How do I register, pay for, and schedule a FUPE?
		




You must first register, pay for and schedule a FUPE before taking it.




		How much does a FUPE cost?
		




The cost of a FUPE is $40 per credit hour.




		How do I receive credit for taking a FUPE?
		




Many FUPE exams are forwarded to faculty for evaluation, so results may not be available for three to four weeks after your exam. Awarded credit goes toward degree completion hours but does not affect your GPA. 






Learning Commons - General Questions


		What is the Learning Commons mailing address?
		


The Learning Commons address is: Franklin University, 201 S. Grant Ave., Columbus, OH 43215.




		How can I reach the Learning Commons?
		




You may contact the Learning Commons by phone at 614.947.6800 or toll-free 1.866.341.6206, or by email at slc@franklin.edu or testing@franklin.edu.






Learning Commons - Portfolio Credit


		What is a Prior Learning Portfolio?
		


It is a notebook divided into six sections:

A table of contents
An autobiography introducing you, your education, and your work background
A list of the course outcomes used to compose the portfolio
A narrative stating what you know and where you learned each course outcome
Copies of documents providing evidence of knowledge and application
Your name, address, phone number(s), and email





		Can a portfolio be submitted for any course?
		


A portfolio cannot be submitted for capstone courses and courses for which a proficiency test is available. In addition, some program chairs have identified courses for which portfolio credit will not be given. With the assistance of your academic advisor, you will need to determine whether or not a course qualifies for portfolio credit before beginning the process.




		How many portfolio credits can I earn?
		


The total number of portfolio credits and proficiency test credits available depends upon your academic program and transfer credit situation.




		Can I just read the book and explain what I know in an essay?
		


No. You must obtain the knowledge at an earlier time, hence the phrase "prior learning." The documentation you provide will serve as evidence that you have applied the knowledge in a practical manner.




		How much does a portfolio credit evaluation cost?
		


The cost is $50 per credit hour for your evaluation. The fee is non-refundable, so if you do not pass, there is no refund.




		Am I on my own, or does someone help me with my portfolio?
		


The Testing Specialist in the Learning Commons can help you, but you must know the content material. The Learning Commons only assists to make sure you have formatted and organized the information properly. Although the Testing Specialist is not an evaluator, he/she can tell you if your material is substantially lower in quality than that of other portfolios that have received credit.




		How do I know if I can earn the credit?
		




Carefully analyze the course outcomes on the syllabus as if they were essay exam questions. If you can write a solid, appropriately detailed essay for each one and support your claim of knowledge with written documentation, then you have a good chance of receiving credit.




		Who evaluates my portfolio?
		


The program chair or a faculty member who regularly teaches the course evaluates the portfolio.




		When can I expect to know the outcome of my evaluation?
		


Faculty evaluators have 30 days from the time they receive the portfolio from the Learning Commons. This means you must submit your portfolio by the trimester prior to graduation so that you can take the course if credit is not granted.




		Do I get a grade?
		


As with transfer credit, a letter grade is not given – only the credit. Your portfolio will be kept in the Learning Commons and will not be returned to you. You may request it from the Learning Commons.




		Is there any appeal process if my portfolio isn't awarded credit?
		


Yes, you may file an appeal by following the Academic Grade Appeal Process, which is outlined in the Academic Bulletin.






Learning Commons - SLA Questions


		What is SLA?
		




SLA or Structured Learning Assistance program is a weekly review of course concepts facilitated by Learning Commons tutor. For more information,please contact the Learning Commons at 614.947.6800 or toll free at 1.866.341.6206, or by email at sla@franklin.edu.




		How do I sign up for SLA?
		




Sign up for SLA at the beginning of each trimester by calling the Learning Commons at 614.947.6800 or toll-free at 1.866.341.6206, or by emailing sla@franklin.edu.






Learning Commons - Testing Questions


		Do I need to schedule an appointment to take a test at the Learning Commons?
		


Yes, all exams taken at the Franklin University Testing Center do require an appointment. Schedule here.




		What do I need to bring to take a test?
		


Please bring a valid, government-issued photo ID. Ask your instructor if you may use notes, calculator, textbook or dictionary during your exam. For CLEP, DSST, FUPE and Distance Education tests, please bring your registration confirmation email, as well as your photo ID. 




		I am not a Franklin student. Can I take exams at the Learning Commons?
		




Yes. If you are a student from another institution, you may take your exam at the Learning Commons for a cost of $30 per exam. You may register for, schedule and pay for your exam online. For questions about testing at Franklin, please email testing@franklin.edu.




		I am a new Franklin student and need to take my placement tests. Do you have study guides for those exams?
		




Yes. You may pick up printed study guides at the Learning Commons, or access the placement testing information on Franklin's Testing page. Be prepared to present your photo ID at testing. You must also ensure that your admissions advisor or academic advisor has sent a placement testing email request.




		What is a proctor?
		




A proctor is a designated exam administrator.




		How do I find a proctor?
		


If you are a student in Central Ohio, you must take out-of-class tests at the Main Campus location. Otherwise, please select a proctor near your hometown. For Franklin University classes, your proctor must be approved by the Learning Commons. The Learning Commons provides proctoring services for Franklin students who live in Central Ohio. Distance students must select a proctor in their home area. We suggest testing sites, colleges, universities, community colleges, libraries, military outposts (if applicable), or your human resources department (if applicable). The Learning Commons also partners with Honorlock, a remote proctor that allows students to test from home. Please note that Honorlock is only available for tests administered online. 




		What is a Proctor Request form?
		


Your instructor may request that you complete a Proctor Request form to initiate the proctor approval process and to notify both the Learning Commons and your instructor of your testing location. You will find this form on your course webpage in Canvas.

Log in to your course page through MyFranklin 
On the course page toward the top, there is a “Student Proctored Exam” bucket. Click there  
Scroll until you see the “How to Submit and Find a Proctor” section. Below that you will find the “Test Proctor Approval Form” 





		What if I missed my test deadline?
		


We're sorry, but neither the Learning Commons nor the test proctor may grant an extension without the express consent of the course instructor. If you miss your exam deadline, please contact your instructor to request an extension. If you are granted an extension, please be prepared to provide proof of the extension, such as an email, when you arrive to take your exam. 






Learning Commons - Tutoring Questions


		In what subjects does the Learning Commons offer tutoring?
		


Tutoring is available for ACCT 215, 225, 310, 390, 420, 729; COMP  101, 111, 121, 281, 311, 501, 502, 511; ENG 101;  ITEC 136, FINA 301, 737; Math 040, 140, 150, 160,180, 201, 215, 280; HCM 733, PF 106, 108; WEBD 101, 236; and general computer help. Help with writing in most subjects is also available. 




		What types of tutoring formats are offered?
		


Tutoring formats include scheduled online appointments and online writing reviews. 




		When can I schedule my tutoring appointments?
		




You may schedule tutoring appointments up to one week in advance. Please register using our Online Registration System.




		What are the Learning Commons tutoring policies?
		


Please see the “Tutoring Policies & Student Expectations” information on the Tutoring page prior to your tutoring appointment.




		Can I schedule two consecutive tutoring appointments?
		




No. Consecutive appointments for any subject are not permitted. You may, however, schedule two appointments per week, per subject as long as they are scheduled on different days. 




		How do I cancel my tutoring appointment?
		


If you are unable to make your scheduled tutoring appointment, please cancel your appointment at least two hours prior through our Online Registration System. Failure to cancel in a timely manner may result in suspension of your appointment privileges.




		How do I access the Zoom software for my online tutoring appointment?
		




Visit Franklin's Online Registration System to sign up for a tutoring appointment. Watch for an email from the Learning Commons containing instructions on how to access your appointment.






Learning Commons - Workshop Questions


		What workshops does the Learning Commons offer?
		




The Learning Commons offers both Test Review and Skill-Building Workshops. Click on 'View Workshop Schedule' at the top of this page to view a complete list.




		How can I register for a workshop?
		




Register online here.






Learning Commons - DSST Questions


		What is a DSST? 
		




DSST is a standardized test that awards college credit for a passing grade. Contact your academic advisor to determine your DSST testing eligibility, as well as available credit hours for each exam. 




		Are DSST study guides available?
		




Yes. Find the guides at the DSST study prep website.




		How do I register, pay for, and schedule a DSST?
		




Please register, pay for and schedule your DSST online. 




		How much does a DSST cost?
		




Each DSST examination is $100 and includes an $80 exam fee plus a $20 administration fee. 




		How do I receive credit for taking a DSST?
		




Credit for a DSST is awarded toward degree completion hours and does not affect your GPA. You will receive a score report immediately upon completion of a DSST exam. Your results, however, do not appear on your transcript for at least three to four weeks after your examination date. 






Library - Wireless Network


		Where are the Wireless Network access points?
		




Wi-fi is available in all buildings at Franklin University's main campus in downtown Columbus, Ohio.




		How do I connect to Franklin University's Wireless Network?
		




Follow these instructions:
Open the wireless settings on your device.
Connect to the Franklin network.
Open a browser.
Sign in with your Franklin credentials.

Public users may request a temporary password by showing a photo ID at the Circulation Desk. Need help? Please contact the Help Desk at 614.947.6222 or toll-free at 1.866.435.7006.




		Is the wireless network secure?
		




As much as possible. Franklin University makes no claim as to the security of information transmitted over a wireless connection. By logging in you agree to use our wi-fi service at your own risk.




		Can I use my firewall with the Wireless Network?
		




If you have a personal or built-in firewall, you may need to reconfigure or disable your firewall to access our wireless network. Note: Once you are connected to Franklin's wireless network, there are two firewalls to protect our network and users from malicious attacks.




		Can I print from the Wireless Network?
		




No. Our wireless network does not support printing, however, you may print at one of our wired workstations.




		Where can I get help?
		




For technical assistance, please contact our Help Desk by email (helpdesk@franklin.edu) or phone (614-947-6222).






B.S. Logistics Management


		How long does it take to get a Logistics Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Logistics Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Logistics Management degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Logistics Management degree?
		




This is an undergraduate degree completion program. Franklin's B.S. Logistics Management degree program is designed to give you both theoretical and practical know-how. You'll learn how to evaluate critical variables like distance, time and environmental factors in order to ensure a more efficient supply chain.




		What can you do with Logistics Management degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Logistics Management degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared to hold management roles in logistics, supply chain and inventory, applying state-of-the-art strategies and methodogies to growth, cost control and purchasing.




		Why get a Logistics Management degree?
		




Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning your degree can lead you to new and better career opportunities. With Franklin's B.S. Logistics Management degree, you'll be on your way to becoming an asset to organizations needing help getting products to market more efficiently.




		What makes Franklin’s Logistics Management degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking six-week, online courses, as well as being taught by in-field professionals. Because our educators have worked within the logistics management industry themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






M.Ed. in Educational Leadership – Higher Education Focus


		What is a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Higher Education Leadership is an applied master’s-level education degree focused on leadership at two-and four-year colleges and universities.




		What can you do with a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership
		


With a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership, you can qualify for positions like admissions director, dean of students, director of student affairs or financial aid director.




		Why get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed) in Educational Leadership with a focus in Higher Education Leadership enables you to lead and manage the culture, people and programs that support the development and well-being of learners.




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed) in Educational Leadership with a focus in Higher Education Leadership is a 12-month, 100% online program that is aligned with standards set forth by the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program. In Franklin’s streamlined, theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in Higher Education Leadership?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.Ed. in Education Leadership degree in as few as 12 months.






M.Ed. in Educational Leadership – K-12 Building-Level Leadership Focus


		What is a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership is an applied master’s-level education degree focused on leadership at the K-12 building level.




		What can you do with a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


With a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership, you can qualify for positions like curriculum director, athletic director or special education director.




		Why get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership enables you to broaden your impact on student success and well-being through leadership roles at the building or district level.




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership is a 12-month, 100% online program that is aligned with standards set forth by the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program. In Franklin’s streamlined, theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a focus in K-12 Building-Level Leadership?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.Ed. in Education Leadership degree in as few as 12 months.






M.Ed. - Principal Licensure


		What is an M.Ed. principal licensure program?
		


A principal license is pursued by individuals who aspire to assume leadership roles in the field of education and school administration. In Ohio, there are specific requirements for licensure. Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.)-Principal Licensure program is a good option for experienced teachers who desire to advance into principal roles. 




		What can you do with an M.Ed. with principal licensure?
		


With a principal licensure M.Ed. degree, you can qualify for positions like principal, assistant principal or curriculum director.




		Why get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a principal licensure?
		


The Master of Education (M.Ed) in Educational Leadership with a principal licensure enables you to satisfy the requirements to sit for the Ohio Assessment for Educators exam to receive your principal’s license. You’ll also complete coursework to help you improve your ability to lead and manage the culture, people and programs that support the development and well-being of learners.




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) online principal licensure program unique?
		


Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed) online principal licensure program is a 16-month, online program that is aligned with standards set forth by the National Educational Leadership Preparation Program. In Franklin’s streamlined, theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s Master of Education (M.Ed.) principal licensure program?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a principal licensure cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		 How long does it take to get a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership degree with a principal licensure?
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your Master of Education (M.Ed) online principal licensure program in as few as 16-month.






M.S. - Computer Science


		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Computer Science degree? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Computer Science degree in as few as 20 months.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Computer Science degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is an M.S. in Computer Science degree?
		


Franklin University's M.S. in Computer Science is a master's-level degree program designed to advance your skills and career path. In this program, you'll learn both the theoretical and practical application skills needed to participate in the development of emerging technologies.




		What can you do with an M.S. in Computer Science degree?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's M.S. in Computer Science degree program, you'll be ready to take the next step in your career, assuming a software project leadership role that includes planning processes and products, designing software architecture, and sharing software development progress with key stakeholders.




		Why get an M.S. in Computer Science degree?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science degree, you’ll be equipped to deliver robust software solutions to help organizations increase efficiency, reduce turnaround time, and maximize investment.You can also tailor the program to your interests with a broad range of electives or pursue focus areas in cybersecurity, data analytics and software systems and qualify for a variety of specialized roles.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree is a 20-month, 100% online program influenced and designed by leaders in the technology industry. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners. You can also tailor the program to your interests with a broad range of electives or pursue focus areas in cybersecurity, data analytics and software systems and qualify for a variety of specialized roles.






M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


		What is a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


The M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Cybersecurity is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program built on a solid foundation of computer science principles, including advanced data structure and programming, algorithm analysis and distributed systems, and combined with fundamental skills in cybersecurity.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Cybersecurity, you’ll gain specialized knowledge and skills within a computer science framework that can prepare you for a variety of positions including software developer, information security analyst and cybersecurity engineer.




		Why get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Cybersecurity, you’ll be equipped to integrate systems that align with organizational needs. Building on the core principles of a master’s-level computer science program, the cybersecurity focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Cybersecurity is a 20-month, 100% online program influenced and designed by leaders in the technology industry. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Cybersecurity cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.






M.S. - Computer Science Data Analytics Focus


		What is a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


The M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program built on a solid foundation of computer science principles, including advanced data structure and programming, algorithm analysis and distributed systems, and combined with applied skills in data analytics.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll gain applied skills in data analytics within a computer science framework that can prepare you for a variety of positions including data engineer, machine learning engineer and data scientist.




		Why get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll be equipped to combine computer science and data modeling to uncover new opportunities for your organization.Building on the core principles of a master’s-level computer science program, the cybersecurity focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Data Analytics is a 20-month, 100% online program influenced and designed by leaders in the technology industry. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Data Analytics in as few as 20 months.






M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology


		How long does it take to get a M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 16 months.




		When can I start a M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree?
		




Start taking the next step in your career. Begin your Franklin online master's degree program in January, May or September.




		How much will my M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree?
		




Franklin University's M.S. Instructional Design & Learning Technology (IDLT) is a master's-level degree program designed to advance your skills and career path. In this program, you'll learn meaningful and effective processes, theories and technologies for designing relevant, performance-enhancing instruction.




		What can you do with a M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree?
		




As a graduate of Franklin University's M.S. Instructional Design & Learning Technology (IDLT) master's degree program, you'll be prepared to identify, solve, lead, manage and evaluate projects that help organizations and individuals meet their learning and performance goals.




		Why get a M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree?
		




If you want to advance your career by helping improve individual learning and organizational performance, this could be the degree for you. With Franklin's M.S. Instructional Design & Learning (IDLT) degree program you'll acquire the knowledge, tools and experience needed to help design, develop and implement effective and immersive learning experiences for all types of learners across a variety of settings.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. - Instructional Design & Learning Technology degree unique?
		




At Franklin, our M.S. IDLT degree program provides a rigorous and relevant curriculum that combines theoretical principles and practical applications of two closely related fields: instructional design and performance improvement. You'll learn how to use a systematic, holistic approach to analyze and solve learning and performance improvement problems by integrating cutting-edge learning technologies, including learning management systems and e-learning authoring tools.




		Do I meet the qualifications to apply for Franklin's M.S. Instructional Design & Learning Technology (IDLT) degree program?
		




If you hold a bachelor's degree in any field, the answer is yes. That's because IDLT is a diverse field of study, integrating a variety of perspectives across multiple fields. Whatever your unique background and education, enrolling in Franklin's M.S. IDLT can help enrich your knowledge, skills and abilities.




		How do I know if this degree is right for me?
		




Only you can decide if this degree is right for you, however, if you aspire to advance your career, increase your ability to help others learn and perform more effectively, distinguish yourself as a leader, enhance your creativity, and refine your critical-thinking skills to solve workplace problems, we encourage you to take a closer look at Franklin's M.S. IDLT degree program.






M.S. - Marketing & Communication


		How long does it take to get a M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 14 months.




		When can I start a M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree?
		




Start taking the next step in your career. Begin your Franklin online master's degree program in February or September.




		How much will my M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree?
		




Franklin University's M.S. Marketing & Communication is a master's-level degree program designed to advance your skills and career path. This program focuses on the communication aspects of marketing, including advertising, public relations and digital media, as well as the marketing strategies that support integrated marketing communication (IMC).




		What can you do with a M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree?
		




With Franklin University's M.S. Marketing & Communication master's degree program, you'll advance your skills and competencies, qualifying you for a variety of marketing leadership roles as well as positioning you for a career as an entrepreneur, a business executive with for-profit and non-profit organizations, or as an educator.




		Why get a M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree?
		




To compete successfully in today's global marketplace, everyone needs to know how to communicate with an intended audience. A master's degree in marketing and communication can help all types of professionals, including marketing practitioners, educators and non-marketing leaders, understand the who, what, when, where, why and how of delivering a message to a target market.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. - Marketing & Communication degree unique?
		




At Franklin, our M.S. Marketing & Communications degree program provides a relevant curriculum that combines theoretical principles with practical application. Taught by a faculty with real-world experience, our program offers a 9-course sequence to help you become a more effective marketing communication professional. In this program, you'll be exposed to a variety of hands-on and experiential learning opportunities, resulting in your ability to re-brand yourself throughout the program.
 






M.S. Business Information Technology Frequently Asked Questions 


		Why get an M.S. in Information Technology degree?
		


You’ll build a strong foundation in IT with courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy. You can expect this knowledge growth to improve your marketability, as demand for information technology professionals is projected to grow 21% through 2027, which is much faster than the national average.




		What is an M.S. in Information Technology degree?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology provides you with the theoretical and practical technology and strategy skills required to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. 




		What can you do with an M.S. in Information Technology degree?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology, you’ll build on technology fundamentals, gain holistic theory-to-practice knowledge, and sharpen your communication skills to become a highly qualified technology manger or leader.




		 What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s 16-month accelerated M.S. in Information Technology program can be completed online. The curriculum integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while also broadening your perspective of technology’s role within business, education, healthcare and management. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication, presentation and analytic skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our faculty members as top-notch for the real-world expertise they are able to bring to the coursework.  




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Information Technology degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Information Technology can be completed in 16 months, 100% online.




		When can I start an M.S. in Information Technology degree?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Information Technology degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






M.S. in Accounting


		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Accounting degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 17 months.




		When can I start a M.S. in Accounting degree?
		




Start taking the next step in your career. Begin your Franklin online master's degree program in January, May or August.




		How much will my M.S. in Accounting degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rates are $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a M.S. in Accounting degree?
		




Franklin University's M.S. Accounting is a master's-level degree program designed to advance the professional qualifications and career path of accountants. In this program, you'll have the opportunity to reinforce the core technical aspects of financial and managerial accounting theory while adding extensive communication, research and technology capabilities to your skill set.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Accounting degree?
		




With Franklin University's M.S. Accounting master's degree program, you'll gain the educational background and framework needed to seek professional certification, such as certified public accountant (CPA), certified management accountant (CMA), certified internal auditor (CIA) or certified fraud examiner (CFE) while preparing you to advance your career in public accounting, private industry or government.




		Why get a M.S. in Accounting degree?
		




This degree can help you differentiate yourself among other accounting professional with advanced technical, research and communication skills Franklin's master's in accounting degree is rooted in a highly specialized curriculum that is focused on the skills and knowledge required to succeed in the field.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting degree unique?
		




Franklin’s M.S. Accounting degree program lets you choose more than half of your credit hours (16 out of 30) from a variety of electives -- so you can tailor your coursework to meet your specific academic and career goals.






M.S. in Accounting-Financial Operations Focus


		Why get a M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Financial Operations?
		


With an M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Financial Operations, you will be equipped to: meet the demands of evolving changes in business organizations; demonstrate proficiency in the skills employers request most in graduates such as communication, research, and technology skills; seek professional certification (Certified Public Accountant, Certified Management Accountant, Certified Internal Auditor or Certified Fraud Examiner).




		What makes Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Financial Operations unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Financial Operations is a 17-month, 100% online program that is accredited by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE). In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners to think critically about big-picture accounting systems and processes, communicate more effectively, and leverage technology in new and innovative ways.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Financial Operations?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Accounting-Financial Operations degree cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Accounting-Financial Operations degree?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Accounting-Financial Operations degree in as few as 17 months.






M.S. in Accounting-Taxation Focus


		What can you do with a M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


With an M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation, you’ll gain the educational background and framework needed to seek professional certification, such as certified public accountant (CPA), certified management accountant (CMA), certified internal auditor (CIA) or certified fraud examiner (CFE) while preparing you to advance your career in public accounting, private industry or government.




		Why get a M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


With an M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation, you will be equipped to: identify tax issues and the questions that must be asked to resolve those tax issues; prepare tax returns containing advanced tax issues, as well as applying tax knowledge to identify tax planning opportunities; and assist taxpayers in dealing with the IRS in examinations, collections, rulings, etc.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting with a focus in Taxation is a 17-month, 100% online program that is accredited by the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE). In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners to decipher the numbers and communicate your findings with confidence and clarity.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S in Accounting degree with a focus in Taxation?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree cost? 
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree?  
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Accounting-Taxation degree in as few as 17 months.






M.S. in Business Psychology


		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Business Psychology degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 14 months.




		When can I start a M.S. in Business Psychology degree?
		




Start taking the next step in your career. Begin your Franklin online master's degree program in February or September.




		How much will my M.S. in Business Psychology degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a M.S. in Business Psychology degree?
		




Franklin University's M.S. in Business Psychology is a master's-level degree program designed to advance your professional qualifications and career path. This program combines business and psychology to create a hybrid graduate program predicated on the assumption that business is a very human enterprise. In this program, you'll learn how to leverage current research in brain science and positive psychology to increase organizational, team and individual effectiveness.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Business Psychology degree?
		




With Franklin University's M.S. Business Psychology master's degree program, you'll advance your skills and competencies, positioning yourself as a leader, strategic business partner and executive coach who understands what messages motivate behavior, what it takes to maximize employee performance, and how to further business relationships.




		Why get a M.S. in Business Psychology degree?
		




As it was, is and always will be, business is a human enterprise. Humans invented business. Humans run business. And humans make business decisions. That's why Franklin's M.S. in Business Psychology degree program combines the business disciplines with the study of the human mind. Our master's degree program will teach you how to apply fresh insights into human behavior to solve real-world business problems, as well as enhance your marketplace competitiveness and advance your career.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Business Psychology degree unique?
		




Franklin's M.S. Business Psychology degree program takes you through a series of sequential, progressive-learning courses. In addition to exposing you to core business functions (the same as with a traditional Master of Business Administration program), you'll be introduced to the psychological aspects, as well. Beginning with foundational principles and key research from emerging fields like neuroscience and positive psychology, through your final mastery class in which you demonstrate the ability to synthesize information and apply what you learn, this program blends business strategy with the latest psychological research.




		What's the difference between the Master of Business Psychology degree program and the Master of Business Administration degree program?  
		




At Franklin, both programs can offer you the opportunity to advance your education and, ultimately, your career. Because the MBP program has a more qualitative focus with topics ranging from neuroscience to positive psychology to organizational life cycles, it's ideal for anyone interested in relationships and systems.The MBA program, on the other hand, has a more quantitative focus with topics ranging from corporate finance to marketing to strategic management, so it's ideal for anyone wanting a management perspective of the functional areas of business.






M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


		What is a master’s in healthcare communications?
		


A master’s in healthcare communications is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program focused on effective communication of health-related information to various audiences.




		What can you do with a master’s degree in healthcare communications?
		


With a master’s degree in healthcare communications, you’ll build a tech-savvy skillset that prepares you to communicate complex health information to various audiences. You’ll be well-equipped for management-level positions that include health communication specialist, public health information officer or public relations and marketing healthcare consultant. 




		Why get a master's degree in healthcare communications?
		


With a master’s degree in healthcare communications, you’ll build your expertise in communications principles, the healthcare industry and health policy. A theory-to-practice program, like Franklin's, that emphasizes applied skills and knowledge ensures you are well-prepared for diverse roles in health communications.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Communications with a Specialization in Health Communication unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Communications with a Specialization in Health Communication is a 16-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners. You’ll also have the option to complete a work-based learning experience that provides an opportunity to translate the knowledge and skills you have learned throughout the program to a professional environment. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online master’s in healthcare communications?
		


Choose from six start dates each year – fall (August, September and November) or spring (January, February and March). Additional summer start dates (May and June) may be available based on demand.




		How much will my healthcare communication master’s program cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a master’s in healthcare communications? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your master’s degree in healthcare communications in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication


		What is a master’s in strategic communications?
		


A master’s in strategic communication is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program with a focus on strategy, storytelling and tech-savvy communications.




		What can you do with a master’s degree in strategic communications?
		


With a master’s degree in strategic communications, you’ll build an advanced skillset that prepares you for managing complex communication efforts that align with strategic objectives. You’ll be well-equipped for management-level positions that include strategic communications manager, PR specialist and crisis communication consultant.




		Why get master’s in strategic communications?
		


With a master’s in strategic communications, you’ll gain a deep understanding of communication principles that enables you to take a strategic approach to managing internal communications, as well as crisis communication. A theory-to-practice program, like Franklin's, that emphasizes applied skills and knowledge ensures you are well-equipped to meet the demands of an ever-changing communication landscape.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Communications with a Specialization in Strategic Communication unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Communications with a Specialization in Strategic Communication is a 16-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners. You’ll also have the option to complete a work-based learning experience that provides an opportunity to translate the knowledge and skills you have learned throughout the program to a professional environment. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online master’s in strategic communications?
		


Choose from six start dates each year – fall (August, September and November) or spring (January, February and March). Additional summer start dates (May and June) may be available based on demand.




		How much will my strategic communication master’s program cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a master’s in strategic communications? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your master’s degree in strategic communications in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


		What is a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems?
		


The M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Software Systems is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program built on a solid foundation of computer science principles with additional courses in system architecture and artificial intelligence.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Software Systems, you’ll gain specialized knowledge and skills within a computer science framework that can prepare you for a variety of positions including software developer,software architect or AI engineer.




		Why get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems?
		


With an M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Software Systems, you’ll gain the skills needed to design the overall architecture for software systems with emphasis on distributed architectures, as well as those necessary to apply artificial intelligence.Building on the core principles of a master’s-level computer science program, the software systems focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science with a focus in Software Systems is a 20-month, 100% online program influenced and designed by leaders in the technology industry. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Computer Science degree with a focus in Software Systems in as few as 20 months.






M.S. in Health Informatics


		What is an M.S. in Health Informatics degree?
		


An M.S. in Health Informatics degree prepares you for roles that help healthcare organizations analyze data to make better decisions. The M.S. in Health Informatics focuses on the integration of data, technology and policy that forms the cornerstone of healthcare delivery, research and innovation. 




		 What can you do with M.S. in Health Informatics degree?
		


An M.S. in Health Informatics prepares you for career opportunities as an EHR implementation director, clinical informatics manager or a healthcare data analyst. 




		 Why get an M.S. in Health Informatics degree?
		


An M.S. in Health Informatics expands your expertise in the emerging field of health informatics. Recognizing the need to train workers in this field,  the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) prioritized transforming health information management to a graduate-level profession and proposed the establishment of a master’s degree for advanced practice roles.  




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Health Informatics degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s 12-month accelerated M.S. in Health Informatics program can be completed online and instructors introduce a wealth of in-field experience to the curriculum, which is informed by industry leaders. 




		How long does it take to get M.S. in Health Informatics degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Health Informatics can be completed in 12 months, 100 percent online.




		When can I start an M.S. in Health Informatics degree?
		


The M.S. in Health Informatics has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Health Informatics degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.






M.S. in Human Resource Management


		How long does it take to get a M.S. in Human Resource Management degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in a as few as 14 months.




		When can I start a M.S. in Human Resource Management degree?
		




Start taking the next step in your career. Begin your Franklin online master's degree program in February or September.




		How much will my M.S. in Human Resource Management degree cost?
		


 Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is a M.S. in Human Resource Management degree?
		




Franklin University's M.S. Human Resource Management (MSHRM) is a master's-level degree program designed to advance your professional qualifications and career. In this program, you'll learn more about the major aspects of human resources, including compensation and incentives, labor laws, and organizational leadership and development. Upon completion, you'll be equipped to be a more strategic partner to top-level leadership.




		What can you do with a M.S. in Human Resource Management degree?
		




With Franklin University's M.S. Human Resources master's degree program, you'll advance your skills and competencies, qualifying you for a variety of leadership roles within the HR discipline, including compensation, benefits, performance management, training and development, and organizational development.




		Why get a M.S. in Human Resource Management degree?
		




This master's degree program can help qualify you for a leadership-level position in the field of human resources. With Franklin's M.S. in Human Resource Management degree, you'll expand your HR capabilities to include developing and implement training, addressing cross-cultural differences, and implementing strategies to foster collaboration, improve performance and promote work-life balance. Our MSHRM degree program not only teaches you the theory behind solving individual, workplace and staffing issues, but also how to apply what you've learn in the classroom to practical, real-world situations.




		What makes Franklin’s  M.S. in Human Resource Management degree unique?
		




Franklin's M.S. Human Resource Management degree program can be completed in as few of 16 months. Taught by academically qualified and industry-experienced leaders, this program is designed to advance your understanding of HR theories and concepts while also teaching you how to put into practice what you learn.






M.S. in Information Systems Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an information systems master’s?
		


An information systems master’s degree emphasizes the strategic role of technology in achieving business goals, bridging the gap between technical experts and business stakeholders. Graduates are equipped to analyze, design and manage information systems that support business functions, ensuring that technology aligns with organizational strategy and objectives.




		What can you do with an information systems master’s degree?
		


The strategic and business-oriented nature of an information systems master’s degree can lead to roles in virtually any industry, from finance and healthcare to entertainment and e-commerce including product manager, database administrator and information systems manager. 




		Why get a master’s in information systems online?
		


Pursuing a master’s in information systems online offers several advantages. With businesses globally becoming more reliant on technology, there's a growing demand for professionals who can bridge the gap between technical teams and business stakeholders. In addition, graduates are equipped for both technical and managerial roles. Lastly, positions that require an IS background tend to offer attractive compensation packages, reflecting the value these professionals bring to organizations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. Information Systems program unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. Information Systems (IS) degree stands out due to its integrated curriculum that blends product management, business agility and analytics, to provide a comprehensive understanding of both the technical and business sides of IS. In addition, Franklin’s curriculum prioritizes real-world applications and has a strong emphasis on leadership and innovation, prepping students to spearhead strategic initiatives in organizations. Lastly, the inclusion of trending topics ensures students are equipped with relevant knowledge that enables them to demonstrate their value in the workplace.




		When can I start Franklin’s online information systems master’s degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall, spring or summer.




		How much will my Master of Science in Information Systems cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an information systems master’s? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your information systems master’s in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Healthcare is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain technology, strategy and communication skills, alongside breadth and depth in various aspects of health informatics including health information governance, clinical workflow and applications, and healthcare analytics. 




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Healthcare, you’ll build on technology fundamentals and learn to apply IT and management skills to support patient care, safety and operational efficiency in a variety of healthcare settings to prepare for specialized roles including data analyst, EHR implementation director and clinical applications specialist.




		 Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Healthcare, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy, alongside breadth and depth in various aspects of health informatics including including health information governance, clinical workflow and applications, and healthcare analytics. 
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the healthcare focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.  




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Healthcare is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your perspective of technology’s role in healthcare. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students. 




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Healthcare in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Leadership is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain knowledge and skills in technology, strategy and communication skills alongside courses that emphasize positive psychology and the latest developments in neuroscience, in order to enhance your interpersonal communication and leadership abilities.




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Leadership, you’ll build on technology fundamentals and gain insights into positive psychology and the latest research in brain science to prepare for specialized roles including human resource development manager, leadership development director and chief technology officer. 




		Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Leadership, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy. Courses that emphasize brain science and positive psychology provide you with the skills to enhance interpersonal communication, be a more effective leader and better understand the drivers of organizational culture.
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the IT leadership focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations. 




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Leadership is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your interpersonal communication and leadership skills. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Leadership in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Management is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain technology, strategy and communication skills and learn to apply key economic concepts and sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts with ease.




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Management, you’ll build on technology fundamentals and learn to apply key economic and financial concepts to prepare for specialized roles including IT director, chief information officer and chief technology officer. 




		Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Management, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy, alongside various aspects of the business environment, fundamental economic concepts for managers, and financial and managerial accounting.
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the management focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in IT Management is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your perspective of technology’s role in business. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students. 




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in IT Management in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology Focus Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Learning Technology is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain technology, strategy and communication skills, as well as insight into how people learn and the benefits of learning technologies, in order to help you excel in providing IT services for learners in a variety of settings. 




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Learning Technology, you’ll build a solid foundation in IT while gaining expertise in learning technology, learning theories, instructional design models and learning management systems.




		Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Learning Technology, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy, alongside insight into how people learn and the benefits of learning technologies, in order to help you excel in providing IT services for learners in a variety of settings.
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the learning technology focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Learning Technology is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your perspective of technology’s role in education. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students. 




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Learning Technology in as few as 16 months.






M.S. in Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


An MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner is a degree that provides a holistic approach to diagnose acute, episodic and chronic mental health illnesses and provide treatment options that include medication, psychotherapy or a combination of the two. 




		What can you do with an MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioners specialize in psychiatric mental healthcare across the lifespan; they may work in private practice settings, integrated primary care, and acute care settings.




		Why get an MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


In addition to nursing fundamentals, psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners have an essential understanding of cognitive processes, behaviors, and how life events affect the mental health of patients. Their education and practice focus on serving those patients. The PMHNP will often serve as the specialized provider for patients over the long term, typically taking a wellness-based and holistic approach to mental healthcare while also providing integrated care for mental illness in primary care settings.




		What makes Franklin’s MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree unique?
		


Franklin streamlines your educational experience with flexible, online coursework and embedded practicum hours that let you practice while you learn – so you can finish faster. Thanks to simulation software, you’ll get a dynamic online learning experience to sharpen your skills before and during your clinical experience. Faculty, who are in-field practitioners provide the individualized attention and support working nurses need to be successful throughout the program. 




		How long is an online MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program?
		


Franklin’s MSN-PMHNP program is designed for busy nurses and can be completed in 7 trimesters (28 months). However, depending on your previous education and if you’ve completed course courses such as advanced physical assessment, advanced pharmacology, and advanced pathophysiology within enrolling at Franklin, you can transfer up to 12 credits and finish faster. 




		When can I start an MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


Getting started with your MSN-PMHNP is hassle-free and convenient at Franklin. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my MSN-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		Do you help find clinical sites?
		


Franklin University faculty will collaborate with you, however, you are expected to be ready with a site and a preceptor upon notification of acceptance. Being prepared helps prevent delays with starting any coursework that involves a clinical rotation. Because you’re probably familiar with potential clinical sites available in your area (including practices that might be owned and managed by your employer), we suggest you begin there. You can also look at smaller MD/NP/DO-owned practices. Then we’ll help you obtain site and preceptor approval, as well as ensure that the necessary paperwork is finalized. Ideally, placement arrangements are identified six months in advance and formally confirmed no later than two weeks before the first clinical course. So, depending on when you start your clinical rotations, this could be during the first term. 
 






M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership?
		


The M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership is a master’s-level program designed for experienced sales professionals that provides a theory-to-practice approach to psychology, business analytics and communication to inform sales leadership and strategy. 




		What can you do with an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership?
		


With an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership, you’ll get theory-to-practice insights in psychology, business analytics and communication that can prepare you for a variety of positions including regional sales manager, vice president of sales and business development manager.




		Why get an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership?
		


With an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership, you’ll use role-playing and simulations to help you elevate your skills. Designed in collaboration with nationally recognized sales experts, the program unites psychology, business analytics, communication and current technologies to inform sales leadership and strategy.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership is a 14-month, 100% online program created with input from nationally recognized sales experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of role-playing and simulations and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall, spring or summer.




		How much will my M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Professional Sales Leadership in as few as 14 months.






M.S. Information Technology - Cybersecurity Focus Frequently Asked Questions 


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Cybersecurity is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain technology, strategy and communication skills, alongside a holistic understanding of the technical and non-technical aspects of cybersecurity.




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Cybersecurity, you’ll build on technology fundamentals and gain holistic knowledge of cybersecurity to prepare for specialized roles including information security analyst, cybersecurity engineer and security administrator.




		Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Cybersecurity, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy, alongside a holistic understanding of cybersecurity through courses that span technical and non-technical topics including risk management, network security and ethical hacking. 
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the cybersecurity focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.  




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Cybersecurity is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your perspective of technology’s role in security. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students. 




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Cybersecurity in as few as 16 months.






M.S. Information Technology - Data Analytics Focus Frequently Asked Questions 


		What is a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


The M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Data Analytics is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that prepares you to meet the growing need for highly qualified technology managers and leaders. You’ll gain technology, strategy and communication skills, alongside data collection, analysis and reporting best practices to inform decision making.




		What can you do with a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


As an IT professional building and maintaining the integrity of systems and processes, you are an indispensable driving force of connectivity. With Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Data Analytics, you’ll build on technology fundamentals and learn and apply data collection, analysis and reporting to prepare for specialized roles including data analyst, business intelligence analyst and market research analyst.




		Why get a M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


With an M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Data Analytics, you'll gain IT expertise through courses in network security, database management, information systems management, website development, and IT strategy and policy, alongside data analytics courses that  prepare you to create powerful visualizations, mine data to identify patterns and make forecasts, and use statistical reasoning to inform decision making.
Building on the core principles of a master’s-level information technology program, the data analytics focus enables you to customize your degree to your career aspirations.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics unique?
		


Franklin’s  M.S. in Information Technology with a focus in Data Analytics is a 16-month, 100% online program that integrates technical and non-technical courses that enable you to grow your technology skills while broadening your perspective of technology’s role in data collection, analysis and reporting. Franklin’s program also provides the opportunity for you to build the communication skills to boost your professional skillset. Students rate our program as top-notch for the real-world expertise faculty are able to bring to the coursework, as well as the support resources the university provides to students.




		When can I start Franklin’s M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a M.S. in  Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your M.S. in Information Technology degree with a focus in Data Analytics in as few as 16 months.






M.S. Nursing-Nurse Administratior (MSN-ADM)


		What is a M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track?
		


The M.S. in Nursing (MSN) is a professional degree that prepares registered nurses for greater levels of patient care, responsibility and leadership and Nurse Administrator is a specialized track within the degree. The MSN is also a stepping stone to the Doctor of Nursing practice (DNP).




		What can you do with a M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track?
		


An M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator enables you to take on advanced leadership and management roles in nursing and healthcare.




		Why get a M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track?
		


An M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator prepares you for advancement in the profession. The MSN is also a pre-requisite for a doctorate in nursing. Many nurses also seek managerial roles because they provide more flexible schedule options (fewer nights and weekends), greater opportunity for recognition and the ability to broaden the number of people they are able to impact.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track unique? 
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator is unique because it can be completed at a lower cost, online and faster than most other programs. As part of the curriculum, students are able to apply their practical experience to the 6-week online courses. At 80 hours, Franklin’s practicum requirement is lower than other programs, and students are able to complete many of these hours outside of the practicum agency. In addition, students may be able to apply professional certifications like CCRN, CEN or OCN toward elective credits.




		How long is an online M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track?
		


Franklin's MSN-ADM is designed specifically for in-career professionals -- that means you could finish your MSN degree in as few as 16 months.




		When can I start an M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track?
		


The MSN-ADM has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Administrator track cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






B.S. Management & Leadership


		How long does it take to get a Management & Leadership degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Management & Leadership degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you take online or onsite classes and choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor for the start date that's best for you.




		How much will my Management & Leadership degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Management & Leadership degree?
		




This is an four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Management & Leadership degree program is designed to advance your professional qualifications and career path. In this program, you'll gain foundational, theoretical and practical know-how in such areas as organizational leadership, change management, and culture and performance, which can help prepare you to take on an top-level leadership role.




		What can you do with a Management & Leadership degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Management & Leadership degree from Franklin, you'll acquire the skills needed to participate in transformational, servant and authentic leadership, strategic management, organizational development, change management, culture and performance enhancement, and human resources management.




		Why get a Management & Leadership degree?
		




This degree program prepares you for an organizational leadership position and helps you develop in-demand skills, such as transformational and authentic leadership. At Franklin, the B.S. Management & Leadership degree program not only teaches you the theory behind performance improvement and problem-solving, but how to apply it to practical, real-world situations.




		What makes Franklin’s Management & Leadership degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Management & Leadership degree program offers state-of-the-art material and skill development in these key areas: behavior competencies for leaders and followers, change management, organizational culture, and performance and organizational leadership. You'll also have the ability to take elective courses that facilitate a deeper understanding of leadership and managerial practices.






B.S. Marketing


		How long does it take to get a Marketing degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Marketing degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Marketing degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Marketing degree?
		




This is an four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Marketing degree program is designed to advance your professional qualifications and career path. This broad and balanced curriculum will introduce you to the terms, concepts, theories, and practices of the major areas of marketing, including promotional, digital and integrated. You'll also be able to dive deeper into an area of specialization through your choice of elective courses.




		What can you do with a Marketing degree?
		




With a B.S. Marketing degree from Franklin, you can start or advance your career as a marketing analyst; marketing manager; digital marketing specialist; social media and content creator; or promotions, advertising and brand manager with knowledge, skills and hands-on experience in marketing strategy, research, analysis, promotion and digital advertising.




		Why get a Marketing degree?
		




Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning your degree can lead you to new and better career opportunities. With Franklin's B.S. Marketing degree, you'll be on your way to a fun and challenging career with a for-profit or non-profit organization. With foundational learning in human behavior, business economics, and verbal and visual communications, you'll be well-equipped to identify consumer and business demand; develop relevant products, goods and services; and position, promote and distribute it for maximum return.




		What makes Franklin’s Marketing degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Marketing degree program combines traditional and digital marketing in a single degree. Here you'll be introduced to relevant theories and concepts, with a special emphasis on applying them to real-world business situation. Our relevant curriculum and application approach to education means you'll be well-prepared to quickly and seamlessly adapt to current and evolving marketing trends.






Master of Business Administration (MBA)


		How long does it take to get an MBA degree?
		




Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your degree in as few as 12 months.




		When can I start an MBA degree?
		




Franklin makes earning your MBA more convenient with eight start dates each year: January, February, March, May, June, August, September and November.




		How much will my MBA cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is an MBA degree?
		


Franklin University's FlexFIT Master of Business Administration (MBA) is an accredited, graduate-level degree program designed to prepare you to assume increased responsibilities in the management of business across the major functional areas, including operations, marketing, human resources and more.




		What can I do with an MBA degree?
		


Earning a Franklin FlexFIT MBA degree means you’ll be well-prepared with the communication, analytical, and team-building skills you need to advance your company’s — and your career’s — competitive advantages.




		Why get an MBA degree?
		


Earning your Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree can help you increase your marketplace competitiveness and advance your career. Franklin's MBA degree program is designed to give you graduate-level training across the key business disciplines. Upon graduation, you should have a comprehensive understanding of, and greater insight into, business operations. In addition, this degree program can help improve your communication and analytical skills, and expand your professional business network.




		 What makes Franklin’s MBA unique?
		




Offered since 1993, Franklin's accelerated MBA degree program is developed by lead faculty with doctoral-level training. Designed from a true global perspective, our MBA is offered 100% online, as well as in Europe and the Middle East. In fact, a significant percentage of our faculty have taught overseas -- so you benefit personally and professionally from the extensive teaching experience, business insights and real-world experience of academically trained practitioners.




		When and where will my classes be?
		




We make getting your master's degree as convenient as possible, so we offer our MBA classes both weekday evenings and online. Onsite classes are held at Franklin's main campus in downtown Columbus. With online classes, you'll engage weekly through live or recorded sessions, and participate in ongoing, class-only discussion boards.




		 How many credits can I transfer from another school toward my Franklin MBA?
		




Up to 12 -- provided your credit hours were earned at a regionally accredited institution of higher learning, and you earned an A or B grade. To be eligible for transfer, your coursework must be comparable to those of Franklin's Master of Business Administration degree program. Transfer credit is granted only after one of our advisors examines your official transcripts, course descriptions, and available syllabi.




		Is the GMAT required for admission to Franklin?  
		


All of our master's degree program candidates must hold a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. No GMAT or GRE required.






Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA)


		What is a Master of Healthcare Administration degree?
		


Franklin University's Master of Healthcare Administration is a master's-level degree program designed to equip you with the management knowledge and skills you need to excel as a leader and change agent in our nation’s growing and diverse healthcare system. In this MHA degree program, you'll learn the theoretical and practical application skills needed to prepare you for a role in healthcare administration so you can help improve the quality of life in our communities.




		What can you do with a Master of Healthcare Administration degree?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's online master’s in Healthcare Administration (MHA degree), you'll be well prepared for a leadership role within the field that has one of the largest employers in the nation: healthcare. With your MHA degree's advanced credentials, you'll play a pivotal role in ensuring organizational responsiveness and sustainability as an executive-level manager within healthcare’s many disciplines, including organizational leadership, operations and HR.




		Why get a Master of Healthcare Administration degree?
		


With an MHA (master’s in Healthcare Administration) degree, you’ll be qualified to develop and implement impactful strategies to help improve the people, processes and patient care that comprise our nation's healthcare delivery system. At Franklin, you can earn a general MHA degree or prepare yourself for a specialized leadership role by customizing your degree program with one of several specialization options: MHA-Organizational Leadership, MHA-Operational Excellence, or MHA-Human Resources.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Healthcare Administration degree?
		


Franklin's master’s programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults. That means you could finish your degree in as few as 14 months. Plus, if you've earned national certification through a professional healthcare organization, such as ACHE, AHIMA, AHA, AAHAM or HIMSS, you could earn your degree even faster if you’re eligible to transfer up to 4 credit hours (equal to one graduate course). 




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Healthcare Administration degree unique?
		


Franklin’s MHA degree is a 14-month, 100% online, master’s degree program designed by and for healthcare leaders. In addition to learning from in-field professionals, you’ll go beyond theoretical concepts to practical application, preparing you for advanced leadership roles in clinical and non-clinical settings. With input and insight from real-world industry leaders employed in healthcare administration, our faculty are practitioners in the specific industry area in which they teach, such as ethics, finance, healthcare law, operations and strategy.




		How much will my Master of Healthcare Administration degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost, so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		When can I start a Master of Healthcare Administration degree?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online master's in healthcare administration (MHA degree) today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).






Master of Public Administration (MPA)


		What is a Master of Public Administration degree?
		


A Master of Public Administration (MPA) is a graduate-level degree designed for careers that serve the public good, particularly leadership and management roles in local, state and federal government. Franklin’s online MPA degree is designed for current practitioners and aspiring public sector professionals. 




		What can you do with a Master of Public Administration degree?
		


With Franklin University’s Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree program, you’ll be prepared to advance to a leadership role while serving your community and helping ensure more efficient and effective government programs and policies.




		Why get a Master of Public Administration degree?
		


With an online MPA degree, you'll build strong communication and interdisciplinary problem-solving skills to help you secure a leadership or management position in a government or government-facing organization. Just like an MBA prepares individuals who aspire to lead in corporate environments, the MPA is a great tool for professionals who want to enter or advance in the public sector. 




		What makes Franklin’s Master of Public Administration degree unique?
		


Franklin’s MPA program can be completed in 14 months 100% online by taking one 6-week class at a time. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program focuses on real-world challenges, incorporates current events, and combines interactive assignments and scenario learning in courses taught by in-field scholar-practitioners. 




		When can I start a Master of Public Administration degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August/September), spring (February) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Public Administration degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Public Administration degree?
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MPA in as few as 14 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.






M.S. in Accounting for Non-Majors - Frequently Asked Questions


		I didn’t major in accounting. How difficult is the M.S. in Accounting degree program?
		


Your individual background, aptitude and interests will shape how you learn. As a STEM major, accounting is rooted in rigorous mathematical thinking and quantitative, problem-solving. The difficulty of earning a master’s in accounting without an accounting undergraduate degree can be subjective, so we can’t say for sure how difficult it will be for you. What we can tell you is what it takes to be successful.
Students who do well typically possess strong analytical skills, and are thorough, detail-oriented, and highly organized. While advanced math skills aren’t required, a solid foundation in math and a penchant for numbers and calculations is essential. Successful students also are good at problem-solving and critical thinking, which helps them identify and resolve financial problems.
Ultimately, the difficulty of a program is influenced by the effort and dedication put forth by the student. Individuals who consistently put in the work, manage their time well, seek help when they need it, and maintain a positive attitude are the most successful in this program.
Remember, at Franklin, you’re not alone in your journey to earn your master’s in accounting even if you didn’t earn an accounting undergraduate. Franklin faculty and staff are here to offer academic advice from start-to-finish.




		How long does it take to earn a master’s in accounting for non accounting majors?
		


Franklin's pathway to an accounting master’s for non-majors is specifically designed for busy, working adults. You can expect to complete this accounting foundations bridge program in 5 terms, preparing you to enroll in the M.S. in Accounting degree program, which can be completed in 17 months. With that in mind, you could finish your M.S. in Accounting – including corequisites – in about 2-1/2 years (31 months).




		Can I get a job with this degree and no experience?
		


The good news is that your next career move is up to you. Many entry-level accounting positions require little to no experience, and employers often value other qualifications, such as education, the ability to sit for the CPA exam, and potential for growth. If you want to gain experience while working toward your degree, you may want to consider interning with an accounting firm or volunteering with our Volunteer Tax Assistance Program. 




		Can I do an internship for hands-on experience?
		


Absolutely! As part of our mission to provide high-quality educational experiences that support adult learning within the context of doing, we encourage student internships. Not only is an internship a great way to gain hands-on experience, it allows you to explore your career options, build a professional network, and enhance your resume. 
During your internship, you’ll learn professional skills, such as communication, leadership, and teamwork. Plus, internships can help increase your job prospects and provide you with a competitive edge in the job market. Ask an advisor and/or program chair for more information and learn more about internships, apprenticeships, co-ops and gig experiences here.




		Why should I get a master’s in accounting degree instead of a technical certification?
		


Franklin University’s M.S. in Accounting degree provides you with a comprehensive and in-depth accounting education that you often won’t receive from a certification program. An M.S. in Accounting degree adds professional credibility that can open doors to new employers or to more senior or specialized roles within your current organization. Earning your M.S. in Accounting degree can lead to long-term earning potential, too, since individuals with higher levels of education tend to have higher lifetime earnings potential. Lastly, our master’s in accounting for non-majors program can provide you with unique networking opportunities with professors, fellow students, and Franklin alumni – all of which can help you build lasting professional relationships that are invaluable for career advancement.




		Will this degree prepare me for the CPA exam?
		


As a student in Franklin’s online accounting master’s degree, you’ll gain the foundational knowledge to prepare for the CPA exam. To become a licensed CPA, you’ll need 150 hours of college credit including advanced accounting knowledge. At Franklin, you’ll develop in-depth knowledge that aligns with the CPA exam, helping you better understand and answer the exam questions. In addition, our graduate courses include assignments that are specifically designed to prepare students for the CPA exam, including practice CPA exam questions and exam strategies. This targeted preparation can help you familiarize yourself with the format and content of the exam and, thereby, greatly improve your likelihood of success.




		Do I need prerequisite courses for the M.S. in Accounting degree program? If so, how will I know if I’m ready to start my accounting master’s for non-majors?
		


Your success depends a lot on you – and Franklin is here to help. Our master’s in accounting for non-business majors includes corerequisites to help you build the strong accounting foundation necessary to succeed in the graduate-level program. These courses cover the introductory material required for more advanced coursework, so you can be assured that you’ll be well-prepared for the more challenging material you’ll encounter in the M.S. in Accounting degree program.




		Can I take the prerequisite courses for the M.S. in Accounting somewhere else and transfer them to Franklin?
		


Yes, you may take prerequisite courses from any accredited school.




		Should I get a second bachelor’s, this one in accounting, instead of an M.S. in Accounting?
		


If you’ve earned a non-accounting bachelor’s degree, pursuing a master’s degree instead of a second bachelor's degree in accounting could allow you to take a more focused approach. Franklin’s M.S. in Accounting degree allows you to specialize in either financial operations or taxation, whereas a bachelor’s degree offers a much broader field of study.
So, if you’re looking to develop advanced skills in a particular area of accounting, a master’s degree provides greater opportunity to deepen your understanding of the subject matter. A master’s degree also can help you stand out in a competitive job market and help with career advancement – especially if you’re interested in a management or leadership role.






Master's in Cybersecurity Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an M.S. in Cybersecurity degree?
		


The M.S. in Cybersecurity consists of courses in cryptography, advanced network security, ethical hacking and security governance.




		What can you do with an M.S. in Cybersecurity degree?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Cybersecurity equips you with theory-based knowledge and application-oriented security skills to institute cybersecurity measures as a standard business process. At Franklin, you’ll earn a comprehensive degree that enables you to see the big picture, translate technical issues to all audiences, and develop solutions that minimize risk. 




		Why get an M.S. in Cybersecurity degree?
		


Franklin’s M.S. in Cybersecurity is a great way to broaden your knowledge and skills. Aligned with industry-leading certifications, the program’s inclusion of emerging technologies like cloud, containers and Blockchain will make you an asset in government or a wide variety of industries including insurance, retail, or banking and finance.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Cybersecurity degree unique?
		


Aligned with industry-leading certifications, coursework for Franklin’s 16-month accelerated M.S. in Cybersecurity program can be completed online. At Franklin, experiential learning is an essential part of the cybersecurity curriculum. You’ll apply what you learn in order to prepare you to overcome real-life challenges. 
In addition to technical expertise, you’ll gain management-level knowledge by examining strategic aspects of cybersecurity such as ethics, privacy, and information security policy and governance. 
As part of your transformation into a well-rounded cybersecurity professional, you’ll also build the soft skills employers desire. 




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Cybersecurity degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Cybersecurity can be completed in 16 months, 100% online.
 




		When can I start an M.S. in Cybersecurity degree?
		


The M.S. in Cybersecurity has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Cybersecurity degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.






MBA - Business Analytics Specialization


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that helps you build leadership and management skills, while also providing broad knowledge in data management, data visualization and data-informed decision making.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics, you’ll gain in-demand business analytics skills to improve business operations and results and prepare for a variety of positions including market research analyst, operations research analyst and data analyst.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics, you’ll review methods, concepts and current practices in the growing field of data analytics; collect, prepare and analyze data to create visualizations, dashboards and stories to communicate critical business insights; and focus on the fundamental design considerations in designing a database.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics?
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA - Business Psychology 


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that helps you build business and management skills, while also providing a psychology-based approach to leadership and organizational development.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology, you’ll gain quantitative business skills with an emphasis in applied psychology and prepare for a variety of positions including human resources development manager, corporate trainer and team leader.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology, you’ll examine the fields of business and psychology; apply systems theory, social psychology concepts, organizational life cycles and biological principles to the understanding of business operations; and study the relationship between creativity, innovation and change from a psychological perspective.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology is a 12-month, 100% online program that integrates business and applied psychology. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through team research projects and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Psychology be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Business Analytics be included on my transcripts?
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA


		How fast can I finish an accredited 1-year online MBA?
		


Designed for busy, working adults, Franklin University’s master’s in business degree program, the FlexFIT MBA, is an accredited 1-year online MBA that lets you finish in as few as 12 months.




		When can I start my FlexFIT MBA degree program?
		


Franklin's master’s in business program features eight convenient start dates each year: January, February, March, May, June, August, September and November. Even better, ours is an online MBA with no GMAT, so there’s no mandatory testing requirements to postpone your start date.




		How much will my MBA cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to better anticipate your tuition costs. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour and you can use Franklin’s free online MyCost Estimator tool to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		What is the Franklin University FlexFIT MBA?
		


Our FlexFIT MBA is an advanced degree designed to solve the challenge of how to balance work responsibilities, personal obligations, and life outside the classroom. For busy working adults like you, Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA program ensures you get the knowledge to achieve your career goals in a way that fits your budget – and your life.




		What is an MBA degree?
		


Franklin University's FlexFIT Master of Business Administration (MBA) is an accredited, graduate-level degree program designed to prepare you to assume increased responsibilities in the management of business across the major functional areas, including operations, marketing, human resources and more.




		What can I do with an MBA degree?
		


Earning a Franklin FlexFIT MBA degree means you’ll be well-prepared with the communication, analytical, and team-building skills you need to advance your company’s — and your career’s — competitive advantages.




		Is an MBA worth it?
		


Absolutely! A Franklin FlexFIT MBA can open up your career opportunities while also deepening your professional network. You’ll also develop and hone the skills you need for more insight and influence in your career, in business, and in life. Even better? FlexFIT is uniquely designed to fit your finances, interests, and time, no matter how much (or little) you have.




		What makes Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA special?
		


Offered since 1993, Franklin's accelerated online and evening FlexFIT MBA degree program is developed by lead faculty with doctoral-level training. Designed from a true global perspective, our FlexFIT MBA is offered in Ohio and the Midwest, Europe and the Middle East. In fact, a significant percentage of our faculty have taught overseas, meaning you’ll benefit both personally and professionally from the extensive teaching, business insights, and real-world experience of academically trained practitioners. Plus, Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA degree puts you in control of every aspect of your education, ranging from how to pace your coursework to fit your budget, your interest, and your time.




		When and where will I take my FlexFIT MBA classes?
		


We make getting your master's degree as convenient as possible by offering MBA classes online and weekday evenings. With online classes, you'll engage in weekly live or recorded sessions, as well as participate in ongoing, class-only discussion boards. On-site classes are held at Franklin's main campus in downtown Columbus. Face-to-face classes meet one evening each week from 6:00 p.m. to 9:40 p.m.




		How many credits can I transfer from another school toward my Franklin FlexFIT MBA?
		


You can transfer up to 12 credit hours as long as they were earned at an accredited institution of higher learning, and you received an “A” or “B” grade. To be eligible for transfer, your coursework must be comparable to that of Franklin's Master of Business Administration degree program. Transfer credit is granted only after one of our advisors examines your official transcripts, course descriptions and available syllabi.




		Do I have to take the GMAT to be admitted to Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA program?
		


No GMAT is required, however, all of our master's degree program candidates must hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.






MBA-Finance


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Finance?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Finance is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that provides a comprehensive understanding of business that enables you to solve complex problems, strategically manage initiatives, successfully lead others and analyze financial information to inform decision-making.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Finance?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Finance, you’ll gain the analytical tools and techniques to develop effective financial solutions and recommendations that can prepare you for a variety of positions including financial analyst, controller and chief financial officer.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Finance?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Finance, you’ll boost your knowledge of the workings of the U.S. financial system and advanced concepts of financial risk and return; study the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure; and understand the evaluation of exchange rate risk management, cross-border investment strategies in international money and capital markets.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Finance unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Finance is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts in business and finance. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Finance?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Finance cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Finance?
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Finance in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Finance be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Finance be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA-Healthcare


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare emphasizes essential business skills in leadership, accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations and economics within a healthcare context to ensure healthcare products and services are delivered effectively and efficiently. 




		What can you do with MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


An MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare provides the business tools that enable you to apply your existing health-related skills at a higher level, whether you are an aspiring physician with the goal of setting up your own healthcare practice, or you are currently working in a clinical healthcare setting or an ancillary industry such as medical testing/research, pharmaceuticals, medical supply logistics, managed care or insurance. 




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


An MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare gives you a competitive edge by adding business tools to your existing healthcare knowledge. Your MBA-Healthcare equips you to improve the delivery of healthcare products and services. As a student in the program, you’ll also grow your professional network to include other medical doctors and healthcare administrators.  
Physicians who complete the program gain the business skills necessary to run a successful practice. All graduates gain a better understanding of how the healthcare delivery system contributes to improved patient care. 




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree unique?
		


Providing the ultimate flexibility to current students who either work or attend medical school, full time, the MBA-Healthcare program does not run on a cohort model.  
Case studies, simulations, discussion boards and input from faculty, as well as the other students in your online classroom add depth to the course material. Given the dynamic nature of the healthcare industry, courses are regularly redesigned to align with current trends and emerging technology. 
The program provides a 360-degree learning environment that keeps you engaged. Individualized attention from faculty members, who are in-field practitioners, will drive you to succeed and provide you with a competitive advantage. Interaction with other students in the program, many of whom are currently attending medical school or working in the healthcare industry, increase your knowledge and extend your professional network.   




		How long does it take to get MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


Franklin's MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare can be completed in 21 months, 100 percent online by taking two 12-week classes per 12-week term. 




		When can I start an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare has three start dates per year - fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






MBA-Human Resources


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources is a master’s-level program that provides a theory-to-practice approach to workplace law, organizational development and strategic human resource management. While your MBA will help you grow your management capabilities, you’ll also gain the insight to be a leader in-tune with the human side of business.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources, you’ll get a theory-to-practice approach to workplace law, organizational development and strategic human resource management that can prepare you for a variety of positions including training coordinator, employee relations manager and chief human resources officer.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources, you’ll boost your knowledge of employment law; explore how a strategic approach to planned change impacts an organization's productivity, competitiveness and culture; and examine the strategic choices HR managers face regarding ethics, employees rights and virtual work to gain a competitive advantage.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts in human resources. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of substantive environmental analysis and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Human Resources be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA-IT Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that combines foundational knowledge of business and leadership alongside skills in IT-project management, information security and data management. 




		What can you do with an MBA in IT?
		


With an MBA in IT, you’ll gain in-demand business and management skills, practical understanding of database management, information security fundamentals, and a strategic view of project management that will qualify you to lead and work in a variety of roles including software development manager, IT infrastructure project manager and help desk manager.




		Why get an MBA in Information Technology online?
		


With an MBA in Information Technology online, you'll build your managerial expertise and practical understanding of technology's role in strategy and growth. An MBA, like Franklin’s accredited program, is a degree universally recognized for advanced business knowledge, while the specialization in IT provides applied knowledge in database management, information security and IT-project management. 




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA IT?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in IT cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA in IT? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA in IT in as few as 12 months.




		Will my online information technology MBA be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts. 




		Will my information technology be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas. 






MBA-Marketing Specialization


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Marketing is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that provides a comprehensive understanding of business alongside hands-on experience with digital marketing tools, marketing communication strategies and analytics.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing, you’ll grow your expertise in the foundational areas of business while increasing your familiarity with digital marketing tools, marketing communication strategies and analytics. that can prepare you for a variety of positions including advertising director, digital marketing director and corporate communications director.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing, you’ll broaden your knowledge of effective marketing communication, planning and implementation; develop marketing strategies and tactics; and lead the integration of existing and emerging technology used in digital marketing.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Marketing unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Marketing is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of strategic analysis and hands-on projects and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Marketing?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Marketing cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Marketing? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Marketing in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Marketing be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Marketing be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA-Operational Excellence Specialization


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that helps you build your knowledge in advanced business concepts alongside methods and strategies for improving operations in any industry.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence, you’ll gain insight into industry-aligned insight into Lean Six Sigma skills, strategies and methodologies; supply chain management and Total Quality Management and prepare for a variety of positions including operations manager, quality manager and chief operating officer.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence, you’ll train in Lean Six Sigma skills and strategies to improve processes; apply optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, develop production and inventory plans; and blend qualitative and quantitative information that enables organizations to capitalize on data-driven management and opportunities.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Operational Excellence be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA-Organizational Leadership


		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership is a master’s-level program that provides theory-to-practice coursework in leadership theory, change management and managerial psychology. While your MBA will prepare you to run a business, you’ll also be well equipped with leadership skills that foster teamwork, effective communication and employee motivation.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership, you’ll be prepared for a variety of positions including sales manager, human resource manager and management analyst.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership, you’ll review historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs; focus on understanding how to plan and implement change in various organizations and other settings; and explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts in business and finance. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.






MBA-STEM 


		What is a STEM MBA?
		


The STEM MBA is a graduate degree that combines the traditional MBA curriculum with a STEM-related discipline. Franklin’s STEM MBA is a theory-to-practice program that combines foundational knowledge of business and leadership alongside skills in business analytics and data analytics. 




		What can you do with an MBA in STEM?
		


With an MBA in STEM, you’ll gain in-demand business and management skills, combined with leading edge analytics skills that will qualify you to lead and work in a variety of roles including technology consultant, decision scientist and business intelligence manager.




		Why get an online STEM MBA?
		


With an online STEM MBA, you'll build your knowledge in essential areas of business while gaining in-demand skills in data analytics to make you a better, more informed decision maker - and therefore a more effective leader. An MBA, like Franklin’s STEM-designated program, is a degree universally recognized for advanced business knowledge, while the STEM component provides applied knowledge in analytics, data visualization and reporting, Big Data and data mining, database management and business analytics strategy.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA STEM program unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA STEM program can be completed  in 18 months 100% online or through a combination of online and on campus classes. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program combines real-world simulations and case studies in courses taught by in-field practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online STEM MBA?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA in STEM cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a STEM MBA? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your STEM MBA in as few as 18 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.




		Will my MBA in STEM be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. The MBA-STEM is designated on diplomas and official transcripts. 




		Will my STEM MBA be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. The STEM MBA is included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas. 






Helpdesk - Meet/Zoom


		I am a student. What do I need to know about Zoom?
		


Please see the following article: Click Here




		How can I setup my computer audio for use in Zoom?
		


Please see the following article: Click Here






MHA Operational Excellence


		What is a Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) with a specialization in Organizational Leadership degree?
		


Franklin University's organizational leadership in healthcare (MHA-Organizational Leadership) master’s program is designed to equip you with the management knowledge and skills you need to excel as a leader and change agent in our nation’s growing and diverse healthcare system. With Franklin's MHA-Organizational Leadership degree program, you'll learn the theoretical and practical application skills needed to lead – and inspire – organizational change initiatives.




		What can you do with an MHA-Leadership degree?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's MHA healthcare leadership master's program, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role within the field that has one of the largest employers in the nation: healthcare. Your advanced credentials will prepare you for a variety of organizational leadership roles, including program director, medical and health services manager and clinical director.




		Why get an MHA-Organizational Leadership degree?
		


With an MHA Leadership degree with an organizational specialization, you’ll be qualified to take on a more significant role in the business side of healthcare, including driving performance, enhancing leadership development, and implementing policies that protect the interests of patients, employees and communities.




		How long does it take to earn an MHA-Organizational Leadership degree?
		


Franklin's healthcare leadership master's program is specifically designed for busy, working adults, so you could finish your degree in as little as 14 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s organizational leadership in healthcare master's program unique?
		


Franklin’s MHA-Organizational Leadership is a 14-month, 100% online, master’s degree program designed by and for healthcare leaders who want to be at the forefront of change. In addition to learning from in-field professionals, you’ll go beyond theoretical concepts to practical application, preparing you for advanced leadership roles in clinical and non-clinical settings. With input and insight from industry leaders who work in the field of organizational leadership in healthcare, our faculty are practitioners in the specific areas of the industry in which they teach, including ethics, finance, healthcare law, operations and strategy.




		How much will my MHA-Organizational Leadership master's degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		When can I start my master’s degree in healthcare administration (MHA degree) with a specialization in organizational leadership?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online MHA-Organizational Leadership degree program today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).






MHA-HR


		What is a Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) with a specialization in Human Resources Leadership degree?
		


Franklin University's MHA-HR master’s degree program is designed to equip you with the management knowledge and skills you need to excel as a leader and change agent in our nation’s growing and diverse healthcare system. In this MHA-HR degree program, you'll learn the theoretical and practical application skills needed to help healthcare organizations stay competitive by recruiting and developing top talent.




		What can you do with a human resources in healthcare master's degree (MHA-HR)?
		


As a professional with Franklin University's MHA-HR degree, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role within the industry that is one of the largest employers in the nation: healthcare. Your advanced credentials will prepare you for a variety of HR leadership roles, including director of human resources, HR manager and human resources business partner.




		Why get an MHA-HR master's degree?
		


With an MHA (master’s in healthcare administration) degree with an HR specialization, you’ll be qualified to become a human resources leader in healthcare talent management strategies, including recruiting, training and compensation.




		How long does it take to earn an MHA-HR degree?
		


Franklin's MHA-HR master's degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults, so you could finish your degree in 14 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s MHA with a specialization in Human Resources unique?
		


Franklin’s MHA HR is a 14-month, 100% online, master’s degree program designed by and for healthcare leaders. In addition to learning from in-field professionals, you’ll go beyond theoretical concepts to practical application, preparing you for advanced leadership roles in clinical and non-clinical settings. With input and insight from industry leaders who work in the field of healthcare administration, our faculty are practitioners in the specific areas of the industry in which they teach, including ethics, finance, healthcare law, operations and strategy.




		How much will my MHA-HR master's degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		When can I start my master’s degree in healthcare administration with an HR specialization?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online MHA-HR degree program today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).






MHA-Operational Excellence


		What is a Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) with a specialization in Operational Excellence degree?
		


Franklin University's MHA-Operational Excellence is a master's-level degree program designed to equip you with the management knowledge and skills you need to excel as a leader and change agent in our nation’s growing and diverse healthcare system. In this healthcare operations master's program, you'll learn the theoretical and practical application skills needed to enhance performance and strengthen the healthcare supply chain from logistics to resource allocation.




		What can you do with an MHA operations degree?
		


As a graduate of Franklin University's MHA-Operational Excellence master's degree program, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role within the field that has one of the largest employers in the nation: healthcare. Your advanced credentials will prepare you for a variety of leadership roles, including director of operations, regulatory affairs manager and director of quality improvement.




		Why get an MHA-Operational Excellence master's degree?
		


With an MHA operations degree, you’ll be qualified to help healthcare organizations improve legal and regulatory compliance, implement quality improvement initiatives, and leverage data and technology to ensure continuous optimization.




		How long does it take to earn an MHA-Operational Excellence degree?
		


Franklin's MHA-Operational Excellence in healthcare master's degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults. That means you could finish your degree in as few as 14 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s operational excellence in healthcare master's program unique?
		


Franklin’s MHA-Operational Excellence is a 14-month, 100% online, master’s degree program designed by and for healthcare leaders. In addition to learning from in-field professionals, you’ll go beyond theoretical concepts to practical application, preparing you for advanced leadership roles in clinical and non-clinical settings. With input and insight from industry leaders who work in the field of healthcare administration, our faculty are practitioners in the specific areas of the industry in which they teach, such as ethics, finance, healthcare law, operations and strategy.




		How much will my MHA-Operational Excellence master's degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		When can I start my healthcare operations management master’s degree?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online MHA-Operational Excellence degree program today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).






Microcredentials Frequently Asked Questions


		What is a microcredential?
		


A microcredential is a course or small group of courses packaged together that upon successful completion allows a student to earn a certificate or a badge.




		What is a badge?
		


A badge is a digital version of a credential, certification or learning outcome which can be verified in real-time, online and shared broadly through social media.




		What is the difference between a microcredential and a badge?
		


A “microcredential” is a course or small group of courses packaged together that upon completion allows a student to earn a credential.  A badge is what Franklin awards to students to recognize completing the credential.




		Do I need to apply and be accepted as a Franklin University student to take courses offered through the FranklinWORKS Marketplace?
		


No. Courses offered through the Marketplace are for all learners. There is no application or admission process.




		What are the benefits of earning and claiming a badge?
		


There are several benefits to earning and a claiming a badge:

They allow you to share your abilities online in a way that is simple, trusted and verifiable.
They provide employers and peers evidence of what you had to do to earn your credential and what you are now capable of.  
Each badge has a series of skills associated with it, which are connected to real-time labor market insights – what jobs requiring those skills are available, where jobs are located, salary ranges, related skills, etc. 
They provide “milestones” on the way to graduation.  You can immediately receive a verifiable credential to demonstrate to your employer and peers the achievement, skills and capabilities you have acquired through your completed coursework.





		What are the criteria for earning a badge?
		


For undergraduate program badges, students must successfully complete all required courses with a grade of C or better to receive the badge.
For master’s and doctoral program courses, students must successfully complete all required courses with a grade of B or better to receive the badge.  
For badges that include a Pass/No Credit course, a grade of Pass must be earned.




		When is a badge issued?
		


On average, it will probably take about 10-14 days from the end of a course to when a badge will be issued.  Dean’s List and President’s List badges are issued about 5 weeks into the subsequent term after the student has earned one of those academic honors.




		How do I claim a badge?
		


Students will receive an email from Credly (credly.com) inviting them to accept and claim their badge.  If a student does already have an Credly account, they will be asked to create one.  




		Do I have to apply to receive a badge?
		


No.  Badges are automatically issued to all students who meet the conditions to earn one.




		How am I notified I have earned a badge?
		


If a student is a first-time Franklin badge earner, they receive an email notification, congratulating them on their accomplishment, informing them they have earned a badge, and providing some details about the value of a badge and next steps to claim their badge. 
If a student has already previously earned a badge, they are not sent another internal notification email; they will only receive an email from Credly, inviting them to claim their badge.  The exceptions to this are achievement-based badges (e.g. Dean’s List, President’s List, Doctoral Candidacy).




		Where and how can I share my badge?
		


Students can share their badge directly from the Credly platform to LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook; over email; embedded in a website or in their email signature.  Students are given the option to connect all of their social media accounts when they first create an Credly account, and are given the option to share a badge every time they claim one.  If a student does not want to share immediately, they can go back into their Credly account and share at any time.




		How does my certification get displayed as a badge?
		


We have partnered with Credly to translate the learning outcomes you’ve demonstrated into a badge, issued and managed through the company’s platform. The technology Credly uses on its platform is based on the Open Badge Standards maintained by IMS Global. This enables you to manage, share and verify your competencies digitally.




		What if I don’t want my badge to be public?
		


You can easily configure your privacy settings in the Credly Platform. You’re in complete control of the information about yourself that is made public.




		Can someone copy or steal my badge?
		


No.  Badges are uniquely linked to data hosted on the Credly platform, so one earner cannot claim or steal another earner’s badge.




		How is the authenticity of a badge verified?
		


When an earner shares his or her badge, it includes a link to view the badge.  At the top of this page is an option to verify.  When the verify option is viewed, it shows the date the badge was issued, who it was issued by, who it was issued to, when it was accepted, and when the badge was last updated.




		Are micro-credentials and badges printed on a Franklin transcript or diploma?
		


No.  However, a student can access a “transcript” of all badges earned in their Credly account.




		Who is Credly?
		


Credly is the end-to-end solution for issuing and managing digital credentials. Credly works with credible organizations to provide digital credentials to individuals, worldwide.




		Can I export badges issued through Credly’s platform to other badge-storing platforms?
		


Yes, you can download your badge from the Share Badge page. Your downloaded badge contains Open Badge Infrastructure (OBI) compliant metadata embedded into the image. This allows you to store your badge on other OBI-compliant badge sites, such as the Mozilla backpack.




		Can I import badges issued from other platforms into Credly’s platform?
		


Not at this time. 




		What are labor market insights and how can I access them through Credly’s platform?
		


Labor market insights are pulled from live job requisitions. Based on your skills you can learn which employers are hiring, what job titles you might be qualified for, salary ranges and more. Search active job listings and even apply for them with just a few clicks through the Credly platform. Access the labor market insights from your badge details page by clicking on Related Jobs, or by clicking on the skill tags assigned to your badge.




		Is there a fee to claim a badge and create an account on the Credly platform?
		


No, there is no fee to claim a badge or create a Credly account.




		Can I print my credential from the Credly platform?
		


Currently, Franklin does not have badge printing capability enabled.




		Where can I find a list of all the badges Franklin currently offers?
		


The list of badges can be seen on Franklin’s organization page on Credly.  Each individual academic program page will also list the badges students can earn in those programs.




		If I have questions about my Credly account or the platform, who should I contact?
		


Students can find support resources or submit a request for assistance at support.credly.com




		If I have a question about what I need to complete to earn a badge, who should I ask?
		


Students should contact their academic advisor to discuss what requirements need to be completed to earn a badge.




		Can students pursuing only a stand-alone microcredential, and not enrolled in a full degree program, receive financial aid?
		


No, a student pursuing a stand-alone microcredential is not eligible to receive federal financial aid




		I’m a prospective student.  How do I inquire about or apply for a microcredential?
		


You can inquire or apply to Franklin anytime (including right now!) with our free, online application.






B.S. Middle Childhood Education 


		What is a B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree?
		


A B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree prepares you to teach language arts, math, social studies or science to students in grades 4-9.




		What can you do with a B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree?
		


A B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree prepares you to teach language arts, math, social studies or science to students in grades 4-9.




		What makes Franklin’s B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree unique?
		


Franklin’s Middle Childhood Education degree is a transfer-friendly path to an affordable pathway to a teaching career as an integrated language arts, math, social studies or science at the middle school level (grades 4-9) in Ohio. With our low per credit hour rate, as well as free books and the elimination of placement fees for field experiences and student teaching, Franklin keeps the cost of a high-quality education degree within reach. 




		How long does it take to get a B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree?
		


The time requirement to complete Franklin's B.S. Middle Childhood Education varies based on transfer credit and intended licensure area. The program is individualized based on the students’ needs. The amount of time it takes to complete depends on how many of your previous courses transfer and how many courses you are able to take per term. Once your transcripts have been evaluated Franklin University will develop a suggested completion plan that will give you an approximate length of your program based upon our rotation. 




		When can I start a B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree?
		


The B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree can be started in fall or spring terms.
B.S. Middle Childhood Education courses are offered online. Most of the courses are 8-week courses, there are a few 12-week course options, and the final clinical student teaching courses are 16 weeks. Courses are offered based upon a set rotation to ensure that all prerequisites are fulfilled through the program. The majority of the courses are offered in the fall and spring terms, with a few courses being offered in the summer. 
Although all courses are online, you will be required to have some day time availability to complete 32 hours each semester of clinical field experience within a partner P-12 school district.
 




		How much will my B.S. Middle Childhood Education degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






Military Students & Veterans


		Who do I contact to get my veteran benefits?
		




Contact The Department of Veterans Affairs to confirm your eligibility for VA educational benefits. For additional questions, contact Franklin's Office of Military and Veteran Affairs (OMVA) at omva@franklin.edu.




		What benefits may be available for me to use at Franklin University?
		




It depends. You may be eligible for one or more benefits. Please read Franklin's Veterans and Military educational benefits information.




		What scholarships does Franklin offer to Veterans and service member students?
		




As a military-friendly institution providing affordable classes and maximum consideration for military experience transfer credit, we offer a $1,000 military scholarship to a qualified veteran or Servicemember each trimester.




		Am I eligible to receive financial aid as a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces?
		




Yes -- if you meet these eligibility qualifications:
• Are an admitted student, enrolled in an eligible program of study for the purpose of obtaining a degree or certificate
• Not enrolled solely in remedial coursework
• Not enrolled in a secondary school
• Have a high school diploma or the recognized equivalent, such as a GED




		Does Franklin offer services for veterans?
		




Absolutely! We offer a number of services for veterans, Servicemembers and their spouses and dependents. For example, our Student Learning Center (SLC) offers tutoring, workshops and academic assistance, both online and onsite, for all registered students. We also provide special services and events through Franklin University's Student Veteran’s Alliance (FUSVA), a chapter of Student Veterans of America (SVA).




		I am no longer in the military. Can I still receive college credit for my training and experience?
		




Perhaps. We want to award maximum credit for your military training and experience, so require that all documented military experience be evaluated by our Office of Transfer and Articulation.




		Does Franklin offer tuition discounts to military family members?
		




Yes. Military spouses and dependent children of active-duty Servicemembers receive a 15 percent military-family discount on bachelor's degree programs and a 10 percent discount on master's degree programs.




		What support services are available to service members, veterans and spouses/dependents of service members?
		




Franklin offers plenty of support, including:
• Free tutoring (online and face-to-face)
• Complimentary writing assistance (online and face-to-face)
• Library
• Help desk (24/7 online support)
• Dedicated, centralized office for academic advising and veterans benefits




		What degree programs are offered?
		




We offer a wide variety of degree programs. See the entire list here.




		What degree programs do you offer non-Post-9/11 Montgomery GI Bill veterans?
		




We offer the same degree programs and student services to our military students as our non-military students.




		I have disabilities and may need assistance. Can accommodations be provided to me?
		




Of course. We comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and state and local requirements regarding students with disabilities. In compliance with federal and state regulations, we make reasonable accommodations to qualified students with disabilities. For more information, please contact the Office of Disability Services at: accommodate@franklin.edu.






MPA - Criminal Justice Specialization


		What is MPA in Criminal Justice?
		


A Master of Public Administration (MPA) is a graduate-level degree designed for careers that serve the public good, particularly leadership and management roles in local, state and federal government. Franklin’s online MPA with a Specialization in Criminal Justice provides specialized expertise for criminal justice roles. 




		What can you do with a degree in criminal justice and public administration?
		


With Franklin University’s Master of Public Administration (MPA) with a Specialization in Criminal Justice, you’ll be prepared to advance to leadership roles in law enforcement agencies, probation and parole departments, and correctional facilities.




		Why get an online Master of Public Administration-Criminal Justice?
		


With an online MPA-Criminal Justice degree, you'll build interdisciplinary problem-solving skills. The combination of public administration principles with a specialization in criminal justice provides you with the ability to analyze complex issues at the intersection of public policy, criminal justice and community well being. 




		What makes Franklin’s criminal justice online MPA program unique?
		


Franklin’s criminal justice online MPA program can be completed in 14 months by taking one 6-week class at a time. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program focuses on real-world challenges, incorporates current events, and combines interactive assignments and scenario learning in courses taught by in-field scholar-practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online MPA-Criminal Justice degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August/September), spring (February) or summer (May).




		How much will my master’s in criminal justice and public administration cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a MPA-Criminal Justice? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MPA in as few as 14 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.






MPA - Healthcare Specialization


		What is an MPA-Healthcare?
		


A MPA-Healthcare is a graduate-level degree designed for careers that serve the public good, particularly leadership and management roles in local, state and federal government. Franklin’s online MPA-Healthcare provides comprehensive training in administering healthcare delivery systems, programs and organizations with a curriculum that includes healthcare-specific policies, operations and analytics. 




		What can you do with an MPA-Healthcare?
		


With Franklin University’s MPA-Healthcare you’ll be prepared to advance to leadership roles including healthcare systems administrator, public health administrator, healthcare operations manager and public health coordinator. 




		Why get an online MPA-Healthcare degree?
		


With an online MPA-Healthcare degree, you’ll gain a competitive edge in the rapidly growing healthcare industry with a comprehensive understanding of the unique challenges and best practices in healthcare leadership and administration..




		What makes Franklin’s MPA-Healthcare program unique?
		


Franklin’s MPA program can be completed in 14 months 100% online by taking one 6-week class at a time. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program focuses on real-world challenges, incorporates current events, and combines interactive assignments and scenario learning in courses taught by in-field scholar-practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online MPA-Healthcare degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August/September), spring (February) or summer (May).




		How much will my MPA-Healthcare cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MPA-Healthcare? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MPA in as few as 14 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.






MPA - Organizational Leadership Specialization


		What is an MPA-Organizational Leadership?
		


A Master of Public Administration (MPA) is a graduate-level degree designed for careers that serve the public good, particularly leadership and management roles in local, state and federal government. Franklin’s MPA-Organizational Leadership is designed for individuals who aspire to management and leadership roles in public or nonprofit organizations, as well as those interested in management consulting.




		What can you do with an online MPA-Leadership?
		


With Franklin University’s Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree program, you’ll be prepared to advance to a leadership role while serving your community and helping ensure more efficient and effective government programs and policies. The MPA-Leadership equips you for positions that include state agency director, assistant city manager and chief administrative officer. 




		Why get an online MPA Management and Leadership degree?
		


With an online MPA degree, you'll build strong communication and interdisciplinary problem-solving skills to help you secure a leadership or management position in a government or government-facing organization. The MPA-Organizational Leadership specialization allows students to gain advanced leadership abilities focused on leading teams, managing organizational change, improving processes and promoting workplace culture. 




		What makes Franklin’s MPA-Organizational Leadership program unique?
		


Franklin’s MPA program can be completed in 14 months 100% online by taking one 6-week class at a time. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program focuses on real-world challenges, incorporates current events, and combines interactive assignments and scenario learning in courses taught by in-field scholar-practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online MPA-Organizational Leadership degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August/September), spring (February) or summer (May).




		How much will my MPA-Organizational Leadership cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MPA-Organizational Leadership? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MPA in as few as 14 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.






MPA- Human Resources Specialization


		What is an MPA-Human Resources?
		


An MPA-Human Resources is a graduate-level degree designed for careers that serve the public good, particularly leadership and management roles in local, state and federal government. Franklin’s online MPA-Human Resources combines the MPA with curriculum focused on critical HR areas like workforce planning, recruitment, training, compensation, employee relations and performance management to drive organizational effectiveness and productivity.




		What can you do with an online MPA-Human Resource Management?
		


With Franklin University’s MPA-Human Resource Management degree program, you’ll be prepared to take on roles like human resources director, HR generalist, employee relations specialist and DEI specialist.




		Why get an online MPA and Human Resources degree?
		


With an online MPA and Human Resources degree, you'll build strong communication and interdisciplinary problem-solving skills to help you secure a leadership or management position in a government or government-facing organization. You’ll also master the principles, policies and best practices in strategic human resource management. 




		What makes Franklin’s MPA-Human Resources program unique?
		


Franklin’s MPA program can be completed in 14 months 100% online by taking one 6-week class at a time. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program focuses on real-world challenges, incorporates current events, and combines interactive assignments and scenario learning in courses taught by in-field scholar-practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online MPA-Human Resources degree?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August/September), spring (February) or summer (May).




		How much will my MPA-Human Resources cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a Master of Public Administration? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MPA in as few as 14 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.






MSN - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an MSN - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree? 
		


An MSN-AGPCNP degree is an advanced degree based on nursing theory and rooted in advanced practice concepts and research-based application. It is for registered nurses (RNs) who want to assume more responsibilities and increase their scope of practice, treating patients from adolescence through end-of-life.




		What can you do with an MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree? 
		


The MSN-AGPCNP degree opens you up to a wide variety of career positions caring for patients in their teens all the way up to the elderly. It’s an ideal degree for RNs with a soft spot for older patients – especially those dealing with chronic conditions, in a long-term care facility, or in need of Medicare assessment. This degree prepares you for careers in a wide variety of settings ranging from long-term care facilities to hospitals to home care.




		Why get an MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


An MSN with an advanced practice specialty in gerontology prepares you to expand your reach and impact in a variety of areas, including chronic disease prevention and management.




		What makes Franklin’s MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree unique? 
		


Franklin streamlines your educational experience with flexible, online coursework and embedded practicum hours that let you practice while you learn – so you can finish faster. Thanks to simulation software, you’ll get a dynamic online learning experience to sharpen your skills before and during your clinical experience.




		How long is an online MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner program?
		


Franklin’s MSN-AGPCNP program is designed for busy nurses, so depending on transfer credits, you could finish in 7 trimesters (28 months).




		When can I start an MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree?
		


Getting started with your MSN-AGPCNP is easy and convenient at Franklin. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that's right for you.




		How much will my MSN-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		Do you help find clinical sites? 
		


Franklin University faculty will collaborate with you, however, you are expected to be ready with a site and a preceptor upon notification of acceptance. Being prepared helps prevent delays with starting any coursework that involves a clinical rotation. Because you’re probably familiar with potential clinical sites available in your area (including practices that might be owned and managed by your employer), we suggest you begin there. You can also look at smaller MD/NP/DO-owned practices. Then we’ll help you obtain site and preceptor approval, as well as ensure that the necessary paperwork is finalized. Ideally, placement arrangements are identified six months in advance and formally confirmed no later than two weeks before the first clinical course. So, depending on when you start your clinical rotations, this could be during the first term. 






M.S. in Nursing


		What is a M.S. in Nursing degree?
		


An M.S. in Nursing is a professional degree that prepares registered nurses for greater levels of responsibility, leadership opportunities and specialization.




		What can you do with an M.S. in Nursing degree?
		


An M.S. in Nursing enables you to specialize within the nursing field, become a nurse educator or work toward a doctorate.




		Why get an M.S. in Nursing degree?
		


An M.S. in Nursing prepares you for advancement, specialization or teaching. The MSN is also a pre-requisite for a doctorate in nursing.




		What makes Franklin’s M.S. in Nursing degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s accelerated MSN program can be completed online and instructors introduce a wealth of in-field experience to the curriculum, which is informed by industry leaders. 




		How long does it take to get an M.S. in Nursing degree?
		


Franklin's M.S. in Nursing is designed specifically in-career professionals -- that means you could finish your MSN degree in as few as 24 months.




		When can I start an M.S. in Nursing degree?
		


The M.S. in Nursing has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my M.S. in Nursing degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.






MSN Degree-Nurse Educator Track Frequently Asked Questions


		What is an online master’s in nursing education?
		


A master’s in nursing education (MSN-Nurse Educator) is a professional degree that prepares registered nurses to provide instruction and clinical training in an academic or healthcare setting. 




		What can you do with a Master of Science in Nursing Education?
		


As an MSN-prepared nurse with expertise in nursing education, you’ll be equipped to impact the U.S. nursing shortage by training new nurses that retire or leave the profession. With Franklin’s Master of Science in Nursing Education, you’ll be qualified for in-demand roles as a nurse educator, clinical educator, curriculum designer or instructional designer.




		Why get a master’s degree in nursing education?
		


With a master’s degree in nursing education, you'll blend advanced nursing theory and evidence-based practice with industry-aligned courses in instructional design, curriculum design and learning assessment. Franklin’s CCNE-accredited MSN degree prepares you to assume advanced roles and responsibilities in the increasingly in-demand field of nursing education in as few as 18 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s online nurse educator master’s program unique?
		


Franklin’s online nurse educator master’s program is an 18-month program that blends online coursework with an on-site practicum to meet the needs of busy RNs. Franklin’s program blends comprehensive advanced nursing theory and practice with industry-leading instructional design strategies and techniques.




		When can I start Franklin’s MSN-Nurse Educator?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Science in Nursing Education cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $598 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MSN-Nurse Educator? 
		


Franklin's accredited nursing degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working RNs -- that means you could finish your MSN-Nurse Educator degree in as few as 18 months.






MSN-FNP


		What does MSN-FNP stand for?
		


MSN-FNP stands for M.S. in Nursing with a Family Nurse Practitioner track (MSN-FNP). The MSN is a professional degree that prepares registered nurses for greater levels of patient care and FNP is a specialized track within the degree.




		What can you do with an MSN-FNP?
		


Although the scope of practice varies by state, in general, the MSN-FNP enables you to elevate your patient care to include examination, diagnosis and prescription authority, or work toward a doctorate.




		Why get an online MSN-FNP?
		


An online MSN-FNP provides more flexibility than an on-site equivalent. While your coursework can be completed online, you must complete an on-site clinical 1-2 days per week depending on the course requirements during your last year. The degree positions you for advancement.




		What makes Franklin’s MSN-FNP degree unique?
		


Coursework for Franklin’s accelerated program can be completed online and course curriculum is brought to life using Shadowhealth and iHuman, state-of-the-art simulation software. Through the software, students will be exposed to assessment, diagnosis, planning and management prior to the on-site clinical experiences. 




		How long is an online MSN-FNP program?
		


Franklin's MSN-FNP is designed specifically in-career professionals -- that means you could finish your MSN degree in as few as 27 months.




		When can I start an MSN-FNP degree?
		


The MSN-FNP has multiple start dates per year.




		How much will my MSN-FNP degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.






No-Fear Dissertation Frequently Asked Questions


		What is Franklin’s University’s No-Fear Dissertation®? 
		


Franklin University’s No-Fear Dissertation® is the result of a 360-degree support system created to address feelings of anxiety that are common among doctoral students during the dissertation process. Franklin students have access to writing and research resources, as well as support from faculty, administrators and peers.  




		How long will it take to complete the dissertation process? 
		


Franklin’s doctoral programs are designed to be completed in as few as three years - two years to complete coursework and one year to complete the dissertation. However, the pace at which students complete their degree varies based on a variety of factors. Doctoral candidates work with their committee chair to create a personalized timeline to complete the dissertation. 




		What is the Dissertation Bootcamp? 
		


The Office of Academic Scholarship sponsors and runs the Dissertation Bootcamp several times each year to provide an opportunity for students to focus on their dissertation writing and research. The Dissertation Bootcamp is a week-long series of programming that provides students with support for different aspects of the dissertation: doctoral writing, qualitative research and quantitative research. There’s also a library (Learning Commons) session and a session on the Institutional Review Board (IRB). 




		What is the IRB? 
		


The IRB or Institutional Review Board is housed within Franklin’s Office of Academic Scholarship. All doctoral students go through the IRB as part of the research proposal review process. With an eye toward protecting research participants, the IRB provides a final review of the research protocol and once approved by the IRB, doctoral candidates can start collecting data. 




		What is unique about Franklin’s No-Fear Dissertation® process?  
		


The No-Fear Dissertation® minimizes feelings of loneliness and isolation that are characteristic of the typical dissertation experience. Students can count on support through the Learning Commons, as well as the Office of Academic Scholarship. In addition to dedicated administrative support, doctoral candidates can count on support from their dissertation committee chair and peer-to-peer support through the Doctoral Student Association. 




		What is the DSA? 
		


The DSA or Doctoral Student Association is a student-run, faculty-supported organization that provides comprehensive exam support and dissertation rehearsals. The DSA also organizes an annual research conference. Through their engagement, the DSA provides peer-to-peer academic, social and emotional support.   






Nurse Preceptor - Student - FAQs


		How difficult is it to find a preceptor?
		


It depends. You’ll likely want to find a placement in your community or within reasonable travel distance. Large urban cities and areas with multiple nursing programs can make this difficult. To that end, think broadly and creatively as you plan your search including having to travel or possibly spend the night.




		Are there any tips to finding a good match for a preceptor and/or site?
		


Consider using social media to aid in your search. Join local nurse practitioner groups and state nursing associations on Facebook and LinkedIn and utilize direct messaging on both platforms. For PMHNPs, consider joining the local therapists’ groups in addition to NP groups. Not only will these be places to seek placements for your first clinical course, they will ultimately be great sources of referrals when you graduate.
You may also try visiting a potential site/preceptor. Approach this initial visit as an “interview” and an excellent opportunity to “sell” your abilities/interest for becoming a leader in the organization or nurse practitioner. 
Don’t forget to take advantage of professional relationships in the workplace, community groups, church, etc. to connect you to someone who may be able to serve as a preceptor or personally introduce you to someone who may be available.




		What type of clinical sites are acceptable for my clinical rotation?
		


Clinics, health departments, mobile clinics or private offices that offer primary care family practice or internal medicine are acceptable sites. There are other options, such as retail health, if at least 50% is primary care. For PMHNPs, consider outpatient clinics, integrated clinics, inpatient psychiatric facilities, corrections facilities, schools, and drug and alcohol recovery centers. 




		How many clinical hours do I need each semester?
		


During the clinical courses, you need 150 each trimester. You should expect to spend one or two, 8-to-10-hour days at the site during each week of the term. For PMHNP students, you will need 75 hours for your first clinical and 175 hours for all others.




		What happens if I can’t find a site?
		


The Clinical Placement Office will meet with you to provide assistance and support to ensure you are able to access the clinical and practicum experiences you need.






Nurse Preceptor Frequently Asked Questions


		Why should I become a Franklin University preceptor?
		


There are almost too many reasons to count! First, becoming a preceptor for the NP programs at Franklin University is a great opportunity for experienced advanced practice nurses to give back to the profession by literally paying it forward to the next generation of nurses. And because preceptors are role models and mentors to aspiring nurse practitioners (NPs), as a preceptor, you can make a real difference in someone’s nursing career just by being an inspiration and influence.
 
Second, by training new APRNs, you’ll play a crucial role in increasing access to care and improving healthcare outcomes for patients. Finally, precepting helps you keep up with the new skills and changes that occur in nursing. So, you’ll not only help someone else learn, you’ll be learning yourself from students who are continually exposed to the latest knowledge and techniques in the nursing profession.




		What does it take to become a preceptor for the NP programs?
		


Because preceptors work closely with Franklin’s clinical supervising faculty to ensure that NP students achieve clinical course outcomes, the following are required of our preceptors:

Licensure and Experience: Preceptors must hold a current, unencumbered state license as an APRN, physician, physician associate (PA), licensed clinical social worker, psychologist, or licensed professional counselor, and have at least one (1) year of experience in an area of practice relevant to the student’s clinical needs.  
Advanced Degree: Nurse preceptors must hold a master’s or doctoral degree. 
National Certification (as appropriate): NPs who act as preceptors require national certification, however DOs and MDs do not.
CV/Résumé: Franklin University faculty approve all preceptors, so a curriculum vitae/résumé and a copy of the license (and certification as appropriate) are required.





		What’s the time commitment for nurse preceptors?
		


Franklin’s preceptors for the nurse practitioner program are expected to invest a reasonable amount of time in guiding and mentoring NP students. Most clinical courses consist of  75-150 hours over a 12- or 16-week trimester. Students are expected to consistently attend clinical throughout the term, which includes a minimum of 8 hours on-site each week.




		Do preceptors have a contact person at Franklin University’s School of Nursing?
		


Yes. Preceptors for the nurse practitioner program may contact the clinical supervising faculty member assigned to the student’s clinical experience. Preceptors also receive an introductory email from the clinical supervising faculty at the beginning of the trimester. Plus, there are one or two virtual (i.e., Zoom) site visits each term between the nurse preceptor and the clinical supervising faculty.




		What can preceptors expect from mentoring an NP student?
		


Every nurse practitioner student has competencies on which they’re expected to focus throughout a trimester. To guide preceptors with respect to student expectations during each clinical rotation, Franklin has a progressive algorithm that you should find very helpful.




		As a preceptor, will I be expected to evaluate or grade NP students?
		


Franklin’s nurse preceptors are asked to complete both a midterm, as well as a final or summative clinical evaluation of their mentees. The midterm evaluation is formative and meant to provide opportunities for growth. Ideally, the final evaluation is given on the last day of clinical rotation. It is intended to summarize the NP student’s overall performance and growth. These evaluations are provided as guidance to the faculty member responsible for grading the student. 




		How many nurse practitioner students can I precept at any given time?
		


Franklin prefers that our students have a 1:1 relationship with their preceptor. You may precept other students when the Franklin student is not present at the clinical site.




		Are Franklin University’s nurse preceptors paid?
		


Although you are not paid a salary or hourly wage to precept in Franklin’s APRN nursing programs, we may offer an honorarium to the clinical site, depending on the circumstances. In addition to the personal fulfillment that comes with shaping a new NP, at the end of each trimester, Franklin will send you a letter that documents your precepting hours, so you can apply the hours toward recertification requirements.











Nursing (B.S.N.)


		How long does it take to get a Nursing (BSN) degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program in just under 4 years. Want to complete your degree even faster? Thanks to our generous transfer credit program, you just might. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits may help you graduate sooner.




		When can I start a Nursing (BSN) degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you take online or onsite classes and choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor for the start date that's best for you.




		How much will my Nursing (BSN) degree cost?
		


At Franklin, you’ll get a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future right now. Our helpful staff can talk with you about flexible financing options as well as financial aid programs. See current tuition and rates here.




		What is a Nursing (BSN) degree?
		




This is an undergraduate degree completion program designed for registered nurses with a diploma or associate degree in nursing. Franklin's B.S. in Nursing (BSN) degree program is designed to advance your professional qualifications and nursing career. In this program, you'll be exposed to all aspects of nursing leadership and management, clinical competence, personalized medicine, evidence-based practice, community and population health, health informatics, and healthcare law and ethics.




		What can you do with a Nursing (BSN) degree?
		




With a B.S. in Nursing (BSN) degree from Franklin University, you'll join a fast-growing community of providers equipped to lead and manage in a variety of healthcare settings, adding critical nursing and leadership skills to your résumé, including clinical competence, personalized medicine, evidence-based practice, community and population health, health informatics, and healthcare law and ethics.




		Why get a Nursing (BSN) degree?
		




If you're a registered nurse, the B.S. in Nursing (BSN) degree from Franklin is designed to help you advance to the next step in your professional career. Upon graduation, you'll have a solid foundation for a leadership or management position, or to continue your studies at the graduate level.




		What makes Franklin’s Nursing (BSN) degree unique?
		




Franklin's BSN was designed for the busy, working nurse. Our curriculum focuses on the application of theory in the practice setting, with a special emphasis on evidence-based practice. We offer a unique capstone immersion experience so you can apply what you've learn in the program to the community setting.






Online Learning


		Are online degrees respected by employers?
		




Of course. We've found that employers value the flexibility that online learning offers employees -- especially with hectic travel schedules or variable shifts. Employers of our students know that our online learning format offers the same curriculum, upheld by the very same accrediting bodies and regulatory standards as our onsite classes. Bottomline? Earning your degree online gives you the same degree, just in a different a format.




		Is online learning is easier?
		




Not easier -- just different. In fact, online learning requires really strong time-management skills. In return, however, you get the flexibility of completing class work at home or work on your computer or laptop. At Franklin, our online courses are just as academically rigorous as our onsite classes, yet tailored to meet the needs of your busy life.




		Isn't it easy to cheat in an online class?
		




Hardly. Ethics do not take a backseat in any Franklin classroom, including online. Statistics show that cheating is no more prevalent in an online learning environment than in an outside one. Plus, the tools we use to monitor and encourage academic integrity help hold our students to a higher standard, thereby increasing the quality and reputation of your Franklin-earned degree.




		Are online students lonely?
		




If you think learning online will rob you of valuable classroom interaction with other students, think again. With the learning resources used in Franklin's online learning environment, such as discussion boards, online chat, video conferencing and more, you may find even more opportunities to share perspective and engage in healthy debate than you would in an on-campus environment.




		Are there real teachers in an online class?
		




Absolutely. Online or onsite, you'll learn from the leading industry-expert instructors. When you take online classes you won't, of course, see your instructor in person, in real time; however, you will interact with your instructors through online discussions, emails, chat and online lecture sessions.






B.S. Operations & Supply Chain Management


		How long does it take to get an Operations & Supply Chain Management degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start an Operations & Supply Chain Management degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Operations & Supply Chain Management degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is an Operations & Supply Chain Management degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Operations & Supply Chain Management (OSCM) degree program is designed to give you both theoretical and practical know-how. You'll learn how to streamline every step of the supply chain while acquiring a set of highly sought-after skills, including demand planning, quality management, supply chain optimization and strategic sourcing.




		What can you do with an Operations & Supply Chain Management  degree?
		




With Franklin's B.S. Operations & Supply Chain Management degree, you'll acquire highly sought-after skills in the areas of demand planning, quality management, procurement, supply chain optimization, strategic sourcing, transportation and logistics, and materials and inventory management, preparing you for such job titles as capacity planner, supply chain analyst and buyer/planner.




		Why get an Operations & Supply Chain Management degree?
		


Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning your degree can lead you to new and better career opportunities. With Franklin's B.S. Operations & Supply Chain Management degree, you'll be on your way to becoming an execution-oriented professional with the know-how to deliver the best products at the best cost in the best time.




		What makes Franklin’s Operations & Supply Chain Management degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of taking six-week, online courses, as well as being taught by in-field professionals. Because our educators have worked within operations and supply chain management themselves, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your entry into, or advancement within, the field.






Pathway Portal - Frequently Asked Questions


		What is the Pathway Portal?
		


The Pathway Portal is a transfer tool that helps students make the most of their time and tuition dollars by providing insight on how each class moves them closer to their goals. Community college students who earn their associate degree and alumni who opt in to the Pathway Portal through their school’s website may also qualify for a $298 Pathway Portal tuition rate* for their Franklin University bachelor’s degree courses
*For new students who enroll at Franklin beginning in fall 2023.




		Who can opt in to the Pathway Portal?
		


Current community college students and alumni of Pathway Portal partner institutions can opt in to the Pathway Portal through their school’s website. Search the list of Pathway Portal partners for your school.




		How do I opt in to my school’s Pathway Portal?
		


You can find a link with instructions on how to opt in to your school’s Pathway Portal here.




		Why can’t I find my school on the list of Pathway Portal partners?
		


Franklin is currently working with our existing 3+1 transfer partners to make the Pathway Portal an option for more students. If you don’t see your school, please share this with your academic advisor and encourage them to contact Franklin University to offer the Pathway Portal.






Prior Learning Credit -  Frequently Asked Questions


		What is prior learning credit?
		


Prior learning credit, also called credit for prior learning, is degree credit awarded for professional training, certificates, credentials, certifications and licensures. Franklin has pre-evaluated 600+ work and life experiences for industry-recognized proficiencies, and awards credit that equates to specific Franklin courses.




		How do I get credit for my training, certificate, credential or license?
		


If you completed your training or certificate as part of a degree program at a two- or four-year institution, please have your transcripts sent to transcripts@franklin.edu. Electronic transcripts sent by the applicant are not considered official. Instead of evaluating the certificate, we will evaluate your transcript, which will allow you to receive credit beyond what we award for a non-college certificate or training. 
If you completed your training or certificate in any other way, please submit your certificate, certification, credential, license, or professional record to plc@franklin.edu for review and processing.   
After your official evaluation has been completed, please review it to ensure that all eligible credits have been applied.  




		How do I know when my credit has been applied or awarded?
		


For items included in the database, once your documentation has been received and processed, you will receive an email from plc@franklin.edu to inform you that the credit has been applied. For items that have not been pre-evaluated, you will be emailed with a credit decision. You are encouraged to contact your advisor to see how the credit applies to your degree program.




		Is there an appeal or re-evaluation process for prior learning credit?
		


No. Certificates and training that have been pre-evaluated have standard credit decisions on file. Experiences that have not been previously evaluated and meet established criteria (assessment, outcomes, rigor and non-continuing education) are put through a faculty review process that includes a rubric to guide the final decision.




		Do I need to submit my training or certificate as part of the admission process?
		


You can provide documentation for your experience before, during or after the admission process.
For current students within a term or two of graduation, please note that submitting a training or certificate to fulfill a graduation requirement is not advised or encouraged. In this case, a proficiency test is the better option.   




		What if I don’t see my training, certificate, credential or license?
		


Franklin’s searchable database contains pre-evaluated certificates, certifications, credentials and licenses that are on file with the transfer credit office. In order to stay ahead of the fast-changing nature of industry-aligned credentials, we will continue to review and evaluate prior learning offerings for degree credit.

If you do not see your experience listed, you can submit it for evaluation to plc@franklin.edu. Please note the specific course for which you are seeking credit. Unsure which course? Please review the Course Catalog.      

To be evaluated for credit, your experience must meet the following criteria:

Contain an exam, test, or assessment to evaluate your knowledge and learning.
Have specific and clear outcomes. To receive credit for a course, the outcomes for your training have to match at least 70% of the outcomes of a course. 
Rise to the level of college level learning. A 4-credit hour course at Franklin is at least 6 weeks long and requires completion of very specific assignments. The content of your experience must be rigorous enough to warrant college credit. 
Not be continuing education. While credit can be awarded for a credential or license, it is not automatically awarded for the continuing education needed to maintain that credential. Continuing education courses that have been approved for prior learning credit can be found in MyCertificates + Training.





		What if I completed my certificate or training at a community college?
		


If you completed your certificate or training as part of a degree program at a two- or four-year institution, please have your transcripts sent to transcripts@franklin.edu. Electronic transcripts sent by the applicant are not considered official. Instead of evaluating the certificate, we will evaluate your transcript, which will allow you to receive credit beyond what we award for a non-college certificate or training. 
After your official evaluation has been completed, please review it to ensure that all eligible credits have been applied.  




		What if I completed police, corrections, fire, EMT, etc. training from a state other than Ohio?
		


Franklin recognizes public safety certificates and training from across the country. While Franklin tools hold equivalencies for Ohio, those credit decisions apply to any police, corrections, EMT or fire professional in the country.  Example: A paramedic in Wisconsin can search “Ohio Department of Public Safety” to see the standard credit decisions for public safety professionals and see a paramedic receives 30 credit hours. Submit aligned certificates to plc@franklin.edu for review and processing to receive that standard credit decision.




		Can I use the same training and certificates to satisfy both undergraduate and graduate degree requirements?
		


No. The credit can only be used to satisfy degree requirements one time.






B.S. Psychology


		What is a Psychology degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program designed for anyone who wants a psychology-related career with a non-traditional career path. With Franklin University's B.S. Psychology degree program, you'll gain valuable insight about specific areas of interest through psychology elective courses in forensic and criminal psychology, industrial organizational psychology and sports psychology.




		How much will my Psychology degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation.  Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What can you do with a Psychology degree?
		


With a B.S. Psychology from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a variety of non-licensed psychology positions in such areas as organizational development, executive coaching, human services and performance assessment. If you do want to become a licensed counselor or psychologist, this online degree program provides the foundation for graduate studies.




		Why get a Psychology degree?
		


When you graduate from Franklin University's B.S. Psychology degree program, you’ll have the in-demand skills needed to help your employer strengthen individual and team performance, coach executives and support organizational change. You'll gain valuable insight about specific areas of interest through psychology elective courses in forensic and criminal psychology, industrial organizational psychology and sports psychology.




		What makes Franklin’s Psychology degree unique?
		


Franklin University's undergraduate psychology degree program exposes you to psychological theories and teaches you how to apply them. And, at Franklin, you can explore a variety of subject areas that interest you including forensic and criminal psychology, industrial organizational psychology and sports psychology. At the completion of your program, you’ll have the option of completing a capstone project (research) or practicum (real-world experience) to coincide with your education and career goals.




		How long does it take to get a Psychology degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Psychology degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters each year with plenty of start dates within each trimester. Your start date depends on whether you take online or onsite classes and choose a full- or part-time schedule. Talk to your admissions advisor for the start date that's best for you.






B.S. Public Administration


		How long does it take to get a Public Administration degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Public Administration degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Public Administration degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Public Administration degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program designed for anyone who wants to manage and lead government and nonprofit organizations. With Franklin University's B.S. Public Administration degree program, you'll acquire the skills necessary for organizational leadership, fiscal administration, political advocacy and program management.




		What can you do with a Public Administration degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Public Administration degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared to enter or advance your career as an administrator, manager or leader in a government or nonprofit organization, applying your skills in organizational leadership, fiscal administration, political advocacy and program management to help your organization fulfill its mission.




		Why get a Public Administration degree?
		




The demand for qualified people with a public administration degree is growing -- especially for government and nonprofit employers. Earning your bachelor's degree in public administration can prepare you for a management position or leadership role, helping programs that service community, cause or country operate more effectively and efficiently.




		What makes Franklin’s Public Administration degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Public Administration degree program gives you the distinct ability to focus specifically on developing the knowledge and skills necessary to manage or run government programs or nonprofit organizations. Plus, Franklin's relevant curriculum is a rareity: It introduces you to important political and legal environments, as well as public service values -- all of which are necessary to become a successful leader in the field.






B.S. Public Health


		How long does it take to get an online public health degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a public health bachelor’s degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my online degree in public health cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a public health bachelor’s degree?
		


The public health bachelor’s degree is a program related to public health theories and concepts to promote better health outcomes for a defined population through education and support.




		What can you do with a bachelor’s in public health?
		


With this in-demand bachelor’s in public health degree, you’ll gain a broad understanding of disease processes and prevention as well as the research, education and communication techniques necessary to create, implement and promote health programs that impact individuals and communities.




		 Why get an online degree in public health?
		


The B.S. Public Health degree is one best suited for those that are interested in helping people live their best and fullest lives. Using personal empathy and cultural competence, graduates will have the skills necessary to improve the health of a community through education and promotion of positive behaviors.




		 What makes Franklin’s bachelor’s in public health degree unique?
		


Franklin’s interdisciplinary B.S. Public Health program is unique because it is the only 100% program of its kind, so you can balance earning your degree around other commitments. In addition, as a student in the program, you’ll benefit from faculty who are industry professionals who bring their expertise into each course. 






A.S. Public Relations


		How long does it take to get a Public Relations associate degree?
		




Depends. Take as much time as you wish, but our associate degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults who want to finish fast. At Franklin, you can earn your A.S. Public Relations in as little as 24 months.




		When can I start a Public Relations associate degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Public Relations associate degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Public Relations associate degree?
		




This is a two-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's A.S. Public Relations, you'll prepare for an entry-level position in public relations or communications with an emphasis on the effective use of social media and other communication tools for managing organizational reputation.




		What can you do with a Public Relations associate degree?
		




The A.S. Public Relations degree from Franklin teaches you the fundamentals of managing organizational reputation and communicating with key audiences so you're prepared to jump start your PR career as a communications specialist, event planner, media writer, account manager or communications generalist.

.




		Why get a Public Relations associate degree?
		




Great question! Graduating from an associate degree program prepares you for a PR-related job now while laying the foundation for a seamless transition to Franklin's higher-level bachelor's degree program, the B.S. Public Relations.




		What makes Franklin’s Public Relations associate degree unique?
		




Get more with Franklin’s associate of science degree program in public relations. Here you'll gain foundational knowledge and skills to qualify you for entry-level PR jobs. And, if you decide to pursue your bachelor's degree in a public relations or communications degree program, your A.S. Public Relations will give you an edge towards completion.






B.S. Public Relations


		How long does it take to get a Public Relations degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Public Relations degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Public Relations degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Public Relations degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Public Relations (PR) is a communications specialist degree program designed to help you develop well-rounded skills in the areas of relationship development, crisis communication, writing for media, public PR and promotion, client relationships, and communication strategy and planning. Specifically, this degree program will help you recognize and address public relations issues within societal and cultural contexts.




		What can you do with a Public Relations degree?
		




With a B.S. Public Relations from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a wide variety of career positions, including communications specialist, director of community relations, event planner, feature writer, media writer, PR account manager, director of communication, PR manager, spokesperson and publicist.




		Why get a Public Relations degree?
		




Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning your degree can lead you to new and better career opportunities. With Franklin's B.S. Public Relations degree, you'll learn important principles of human behavior as well as how these principles can help you be a more effective public relations practitioner.




		What makes Franklin’s Public Relations degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Public Relations degree program offers a core of public relations classes, along with courses in ethics, client relations, psychology and sociology. This unique curriculum is designed to provide you with advanced knowledge of human behavior and link it to public relations -- so you acquire a state-of-the-art, tactical skillset to be a more effective PR practitioner.






B.S. Public Safety Management & Leadership


		How long does it take to get a Public Safety Management & Leadership degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Public Safety Management & Leadership degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Public Safety Management & Leadership degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Public Safety Management & Leadership degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Public Safety Management & Leadership degree program is designed to equip you to plan, mitigate and respond to large-scale emergencies. The homeland security component of this program will advance your education in law enforcement methods and practices so you're well-prepared to manage projects involving criminal investigations.




		What can you do with a Public Safety Management & Leadership degree?
		




With a B.S. Public Safety Management & Leadership degree from Franklin, you'll open up your career advancement potential and be prepared to take on a leadership role within a public safety- or criminal justice-related agency.




		Why get a Public Safety Management & Leadership degree?
		




Like most bachelor's degrees, the knowledge and skills you get from earning your degree can lead you to new and better career opportunities. With Franklin's B.S. Public Safety Management & Leadership degree, you'll acquire an understanding of important leadership principles while you learn about budgeting and administration for fire and law enforcement agencies.




		What makes Franklin’s Public Safety Management & Leadership degree unique?
		




At Franklin, you'll experience the convenience and flexibility of online courses, virtual live sessions, and classes taught by academically trained, industry-leading professionals. Because our faculty has real-world public safety management and leadership experience, they bring a unique perspective to help guide your advancement within the field.






FAQs


		How can I make a payment? 
		




Checks and money orders may be dropped off at the University’s Welcome Center or mailed to the University’s Business Office. You may also pay securely online using CASHNet. We offer a variety of online payment options. To learn more or to make an online payment, log on to myFranklin > Shortcuts > WebAdvisor > Financial Information > View My Account Balance > Payment Options.

 




		Why does my offer letter indicate that I am getting more grant funds than were actually posted to my account?
		


Franklin awards financial aid based on full-time enrollment, unless otherwise indicated on your Offer Letter. Any change in enrollment may impact eligibility. Grant funds are pro-rated to your current enrollment; therefore, the amount on your offer letter may differ from your actual eligibility. Contact our Student Financial Services department for information and updates to your financial aid eligibility. Note: CCA students are awarded financial aid based upon full time enrollment at their community college until confirmation of their actual enrolled hours has been received by our office.




		What happens if I do not meet SAP?
		




For a first offense, you are assigned a WARNING status (except MTF). If you fail to maintain all of the conditional stipulations of your WARNING, your status will be updated to WITHDRAWN. If you exceed MTF at anytime, your SAP status will be updated to WITHDRAWN.




		What forms of payment does Franklin accept?
		




You may pay your tuition balance using MasterCard®, Visa®, Discover®, AmericanExpress®, personal check, cashier’s check or money order. If you pay with a debit card or credit card, you will be charged a small convenience fee. To avoid this convenience fee, please use the electronic check option. Please have your bank's routing number, and your checking or savings account number handy.
 




		What is Student Loan Exit Counseling and why must I complete this process when I am in school or returning to school?
		




When you stop attending school or drop below half-time, Student Loan Exit Counseling is federally mandated -- regardless of whether you intend to return. You can log into studentaid.gov to complete your Exit Counseling.






Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does an RN to MSN take?
		


Franklin’s streamlined RN to MSN pathway, designed for registered nurses with associate degrees or nursing diplomas, consists of a 12-week bridge course that can put you on the path to earning your M.S. in Nursing (MSN). To be admitted into Franklin’s MSN or MSN-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP) programs, you must complete the bridge course with a grade of B or better. Once you are admitted to the MSN program, you can complete the MSN in 18 months or the MSN-FNP in 27 months.




		Should I do an RN to BSN or an RN to MSN?
		


Whether you earn the B.S. in Nursing (BSN) on the way to your M.S. in Nursing (MSN) depends on your unique situation and ultimate career goals. While the MSN is the necessary credential for teaching or leadership positions, you may need the BSN to obtain your initial nursing position while you work toward the next level. 
In addition, your employer may have reimbursement programs or career development programs that make earning the BSN more advantageous for you. However, if you know that the MSN is a requirement for your dream job, an RN to MSN program will put you on fast-track to get there quickly and at a lower cost. 




		What is RN to MSN?
		


Designed for registered nurses with associate degrees or nursing diplomas, Franklin’s streamlined RN to MSN is a 12-week bridge course that puts you on the path to earning your M.S. in Nursing (MSN). To be admitted into Franklin’s MSN or MSN-Family Nurse Practitioner programs, you must complete the bridge course with a grade of B or better. 




		When can I start the RN to MSN?
		


The RN to MSN has multiple start dates each year, including summer (May). 




		How much will the RN to BSN bridge course (4 credit hours) cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






RN to MSN Frequently Asked Questions


		How long does an RN to MSN take?
		


Franklin’s streamlined RN to MSN pathway, designed for registered nurses with associate degrees or nursing diplomas, consists of a 12-week bridge course that can put you on the path to earning your M.S. in Nursing (MSN). To be admitted into Franklin’s MSN, you must complete the bridge course with a grade of B or better. Once you are admitted to the MSN program, you can complete the MSN-ADM in 16 months, the MSN in 18 months, the MSN-FNP in 27 months or the MSN-AGPCNP in 28 months.




		Should I do an RN to BSN or an RN to MSN?
		


Whether you earn the B.S. in Nursing (BSN) on the way to your M.S. in Nursing (MSN) depends on your unique situation and ultimate career goals. While the MSN is the necessary credential for teaching or leadership positions, you may need the BSN to obtain your initial nursing position while you work toward the next level. 




		What is an RN to MSN?
		


Designed for registered nurses with associate degrees or nursing diplomas, Franklin’s streamlined RN to MSN is a 12-week bridge course that puts you on the path to earning your M.S. in Nursing (MSN). To be admitted into Franklin’s MSN, you must complete the bridge course with a grade of B or better. 




		When can I start the RN to MSN?
		


The RN to MSN has multiple start dates each year, including summer (May). 




		How much will the RN to BSN bridge course (4 credit hours) cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.






Scholarships


		If I am awarded a scholarship from Franklin or from an external resource, can I also receive federal grants, loans and/or scholarships from other resources?
		


Yes, but by federal law, the total awarded dollars (scholarships, grants, loans, etc.) cannot exceed the total cost of attendance (including tuition, fees, living expenses and books) at Franklin for one academic year.




		What is the basic criteria to be eligible for a Franklin University scholarship?
		


Different scholarships have different minimum credit hour requirements and GPA requirements. Most undergraduate and graduate scholarship require at least half-time enrollment in Franklin credit hours. To be competitive you should maintain a 3.0 GPA.
 




		 Are scholarships available to transfer students?
		


Yes! We encourage undergraduate transfer students to apply using the Undergraduate Scholars Program application each semester found on our website.
 




		What is the difference between a merit-based scholarship and a need-based scholarship?
		


A merit-based scholarship is awarded based upon academic criteria. A need-based scholarship is based upon academic criteria along with demonstrated financial need. This financial need is determined by using the Student Aid Index (SAI) provided by filing the FAFSA.




		What other resources are available to find free money?
		


Review the Scholarship page of our website regularly as we update with resources that fit the demographic of our student at Franklin. Consider your employer, religious organizations, military services, civic organizations, large employers such as Walmart, McDonald’s, Coke-a-Cola, etc. Check with family members to determine if they have any family benefits through their employer. NEVER pay for a search for free money! 






Sigma Beta Delta


		What is Sigma Beta Delta?
		


Sigma Beta Delta is an academic honorary. To be considered for membership in Sigma Beta Delta, a student must be at least junior status (undergraduate) or ½ complete (masters) in a program in Franklin University’s Ross College of Business or in the Master of Science in Business Psychology. This honor society is not available to associate degree students. Students who have incurred Academic Dishonesty or Academic Misconduct violations will not be considered for membership in Sigma Beta Delta.




		What is the selection process?
		


Membership is by selection only, and is based on program completion and grade point average. The selection process begins at the end of each academic year (each August 31), and honorees are notified and invited to attend the annual induction ceremony held each November.




		What is the cost?
		




The cost of a lifetime membership in Sigma Beta Delta is $75.00 (includes both Franklin Chapter and Sigma Beta Delta International membership fees), payable upon invitation to and acceptance of membership.




		Is it a fraternity or sorority?
		



Sigma Beta Delta is not a social fraternity or sorority that one may “pledge” to or voluntarily join. Similarly, students may not join by referrals or recommendations, whether from faculty or other sources.




		When is the induction?
		


There is one selection process each calendar year, and one annual induction ceremony, usually held in November each calendar year




		What is the membership standard?
		


Because selection and membership in Sigma Beta Delta is limited by Grade Point Average in the top 20 percent of each class (i.e., graduate and undergraduate), opportunities for membership are usually very limited.




		When do I qualify?
		


A student may qualify for membership prior to graduation, based on the criteria stated. Students generally qualify in their year of graduation.




		What do I wear for graduation?
		


Members of Sigma Beta Delta are entitled to wear Sigma Beta Delta regalia at their Commencement ceremony. Franklin University does not provide SBD regalia to our members. Once you officially become a member of Sigma Beta Delta, you may order regalia items directly from SBD’s website. At the website, you will see several options. Many students choose the stole or the honor cords, a few choose both, and a few choose the medallion. The choice is yours. Keep in mind that if you are graduating with honors from the University, Franklin will provide the appropriate honor cords for you at Commencement. You may wear Sigma Beta Delta regalia in addition to the University’s honor cords.






Sinclair Community College Frequently Asked Questions


		How do I request Sinclair Community College transcripts? 
		



After you’ve applied to Franklin, request the transcripts from Sinclair Community College (and any other of your previously attended schools) be sent to Franklin for evaluation. The best way to do this is to contact your previous school’s Office of the Registrar or Office of Records and ask specifically for an official, unaltered, sealed transcript to be sent directly to Franklin. Learn more about how to transfer credits here.




		How do I transfer from Sinclair Community College to Franklin? 
		


Transfer credit is a great way to finish your degree faster. Start by completing your free online application. Then submit your official transcripts for evaluation. For help at any time, please email transferinfo@franklin.edu or complete a Request for Information form online.




		Who do I contact with questions about transferring from Sinclair Community College to Franklin?
		


Franklin has Community College Regional Managers (CCRM) who work specifically with students transferring from Sinclair Community College. CCRMs can assist students early on while working toward an associate degree to determine which classes at the community college will transfer to Franklin, when to begin classes at Franklin, and how to continue taking bridge courses at the Sinclair. Your CCRMs are Jenny Garringer and Jennifer Mack, for contact information click here.




		What is Sinclair Community College and Franklin's 3+1 transfer program?
		


Franklin offers a 3+1 transfer option for several programs, where students can finish their associate degree at Sinclair Community College and complete additional courses at Sinclair Community College while concurrently enrolled at Franklin.




		 How many credits can I transfer from Sinclair Community College?
		


With Franklin's generous transfer credit policy, you'll get a lot more transfer credits. For a bachelor's degree, that means up to 94 credit hours. Estimate your transfer hours now, including how much your credits are worth and how quickly transfer credits can help you can finish your degree. Franklin does have eligibility and other transfer credit guidelines, so email us at transferinfo@franklin.edu.




		What are Franklin University’s tuition rates?
		


Our tuition rates are very competitive. View our current rates here.




		Do I have to come to campus for the admission process?
		


No, the admission’s process can be completed virtually which means you never have to come to campus.




		Do I have to come to campus if I take classes online?
		


No, all Franklin's bachelor's degrees can be completed 100% online.






B.S. Social Sciences


		How long does it take to get a Social Sciences degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Social Sciences degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Social Sciences degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Social Sciences degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Franklin's B.S. Social Sciences degree program is designed to expose you to relevant research methods and analysis techniques to give you a better understanding of societal cause-and-effect relationships. In this program you'll also learn to apply scientific methodologies to human behavior in order affect change improvements in individuals and small groups at cultural and societal levels.




		What can you do with a Social Sciences degree?
		




When you graduate with a B.S. Social Sciences degree from Franklin, you've opened yourself up to a career in human resources, human services and social services, and acquired an excellent foundation for graduate studies if you wish to become a licensed social worker.




		Why get a Social Sciences degree?
		




Earning your B.S. Social Sciences from Franklin means you've studied the social sciences from a variety of options, such as anthropology, applied psychology, business economics, criminal justice administration and sociology. As a result, you'll have the knowledge and skills you need to advance your career goals.




		What makes Franklin’s Social Sciences degree unique?
		




In addition to introducing you to relevant sociology theories, Franklin's B.S. Social Sciences degree program gives you the ability to complete a hands-on practicum in community mental health, social work or nonprofit -- so you get invaluable exposure and experience in your chosen specialty.






Sport Management  - Bachelor of Science - FAQ


		How long does it take to get a Sport Management degree?
		


Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Sport Management degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Sport Management degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a Sport Management degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program that exists at the intersection of business and the sports industry. Students learn business concepts within the context of sports through online coursework and complete an on-site field experience that provides experiential training to round out their degree.
 




		What can you do with a Sport Management degree?
		


Sport management graduates go on to become sports business operation managers, event managers, facilities directors, franchise managers, athletic directors, sports information directors, sports broadcasters or entrepreneurs. Some also go on to graduate school to pursue careers as agents.




		Why get a Sport Management degree?
		


With a B.S. Sport Management from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared for leadership positions in public, private and commercial employment settings within the fitness, recreational, sport and wellness industries. Graduates of the sport management major will find job opportunities in the media, high school and college athletic departments, and minor league and professional sports organizations.




		What makes Franklin’s Sport Management degree unique?
		


With a B.S. Sport Management from Franklin, you'll be well-prepared for leadership positions in public, private and commercial employment settings within the fitness, recreational, sport and wellness industries. Our online bachelor's degree program provides coursework in a convenient format that works for busy adults and 6 credit hours of required experiential learning that provides an opportunity to work alongside an in-field professional to gain hands on experience.






Nurse Preceptor Frequently Asked Questions


		Question 3
		


Add copy here






Transfer Doctoral Credits FAQs


		Can I transfer credits into a doctoral program? 
		


At Frankin University, you can transfer previously earned credits into a doctoral program. Our transfer-friendly DBA, DHA and Ed.D. programs are designed to accommodate as many as 33 hours of transfer credit, while our DNP-Leadership and DNP-APRN programs can accommodate up to 12 and nine hours, respectively.  




		Which types of credits can I transfer into a doctoral program? 
		


Doctoral students transfer both previously earned doctoral credit, as well as master’s level credit (above 30 hours) toward their degrees. Most students are successful in using transfer credits to reduce or satisfy elective credit requirements in business, healthcare, education and instructional design programs. 




		Is there a limit to the number of credits that I can transfer into a doctoral degree?  
		


The maximum number of transfer credits that can be accepted varies by program. For the DBA, DHA and Ed.D. (Organizational Leadership and Instructional Design Leadership programs), you can transfer up to 33 credits. However, the average is usually much less. The DNP-Leadership maxes out at 12 transfer credits, while the DNP-APRN (nurse practitioner) programs max out at nine transfer credits.   




		Do master's-level courses transfer into doctorate programs?  
		


Sometimes master’s-level courses can be used to satisfy elective credits in doctoral programs. For your master’s-level courses to transfer, you must have earned more than 30 credits as part of your master’s degree. To qualify for transfer consideration, courses must be in business, healthcare, education or instructional design.   






Transferring Credit - Graduate Transfer Credit Guidelines


		What does Franklin accept as graduate transfer credit?
		




We accept transfer credit based on an evaluation of your official transcripts, course descriptions, and syllabi (if available). Transcripts must be sent directly to the Graduate Office from all previously attended colleges. We usually accept transfer credit for comparable graduate courses with a grade of “B” or higher (or the equivalent) as long as they're completed within the timeframe established for the subject area in question.




		How many credits can I transfer?
		




Perhaps. If you're eligible, you may transfer up to 12 hours of credit. You must, however, meet University Graduate residency requirements. Please see Franklin's Academic Bulletin for additional information.




		Can undergraduate courses be applied to my graduate degree?
		




No. Undergraduate courses cannot be applied toward graduate degrees. Learn more about financial aid options.






Transferring Credit - Undergraduate Transfer Credit Guidelines


		What does Franklin accept as undergraduate transfer credit?
		




Franklin is a transfer-friendly university that accepts a variety of transfer credit -- more than any other institution -- with a case-by-case evaluation of transfer credit hours, including college courses completed with a grade of “D” or higher. Credit is awarded based on a number of factors, including subject matter, prerequisites, level and laboratory requirements.




		What transfer credit does Franklin award for professional training?
		




It depends. Transfer credit may be awarded for courses or professional training offered through business and industry, such as courses taken through the American Institute of Banking (AIB) or the Life Office Management Association (LOMA). Such credit is awarded based on the recommendations found in The National Guide to Educational Credit for Training Programs (published by the American Council on Education), or The Directory of the National Program on Noncollegiate Sponsored Instruction. Official transcripts or original certificates of completion must be submitted for evaluation. Nontraditional certificates also may be reviewed for consideration. In addition to official transcripts or original certificates, please provide your academic advisor with a syllabus or workbook for the course, evidence of a test and the amount of time spent in class.




		What transfer credit does Franklin award for military training?
		




Transfer credit may be awarded for courses taken in the armed services. Such credit is awarded based on the recommendations found in the Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services. Original military certificates and appropriate military records must be submitted before military credit can be evaluated. If you are, or have been, in the military, you must submit appropriate paperwork for transfer credit evaluation, such as a Joint Services Transcript (JST), a DD 295, a DD 214 or Community College of the Air Force (CCAF).




		Does Franklin accept transfer credit from StraighterLine?
		




Yes, with exceptions. Transfer credit is awarded for courses taken from StraighterLiner based on an existing articulation agreement. You may view course equivalencies on the StraighterLine website or by visiting myTransferCredit. Original transcripts from StraighterLine must be submitted to the Franklin University Registrar.




		What happens if I have transfer deficiencies?
		




All courses at Franklin are offered on a semester credit-hour basis (1 quarter hour = .67 semester hour). If you are deficient in credit-hour requirements and degree components, you may fill a deficiency in any of the following ways. Note that you may be required to take additional elective credits to complete total credits hours required to earn your degree.
• General Education core deficiencies of three hours or fewer may be met with General Education courses, Major Area electives or University electives.
• Deficiencies of four hours or more must be met with General Education electives.
• Business/Professional Core deficiencies may be met with Major Area electives or Business/Professional Core equivalent credit.
• Major Area deficiencies must be met with Major Area electives.




		How do I appeal Franklin's decision?
		




You have the right to appeal a decision. Please talk with your academic advisor for appeal procedures and guidelines. Please note that the Program Chairperson grants all decisions for appeal.




		How many credits can I transfer?
		




That depends. First, you must meet Franklin University's residency requirements. For a bachelor’s degree, that means at least 30 credit hours in residence; for an associate degree, it means at least 20 credit hours in residence. You also must successfully complete at least 20 credit hours of major area courses in residence at the 300 or 400 level for the bachelor’s degree; and a minimum of 12 credit hours of major area courses at the 200+ level for the associate degree. If you pursue a subsequent bachelor’s degree, you must earn a minimum of 30 credit hours at the 200 level or above, a minimum of which should be 16 credit hours of major area courses at the 300 or 400 level and a minimum of 12 credit hours of major area courses at the 200 level or above for the associate degree. Upper level courses typically are not applied from a two-year college toward the bachelor’s.




		Can credit be awarded for Advanced Placement Testing?
		




It depends. If you've taken an advanced placement test at your high school and received a score of three, four or five, you may be eligible for University credit; however, you must arrange for your test scores to be sent to Franklin's Transfer Credit Office.




		What if I change my major after being accepted?
		




If you want to declare a different major, please contact your academic advisor to determine how your transfer credit will apply to your new degree program. If you declare a new major program based on the results of your consultation, you will be bound by any requirements that are effect at the time of your new declaration.




		What happens if I take a course that has been transferred?
		




If you repeat a course that is equivalent to the one you received transfer credit for, your transfer credit will be removed. Not sure which courses you've already transferred? Contact your Academic Advisor.




		Should I meet with my Academic Advisor to go over my transfer credit acceptance?
		




Yes. You should always review the acceptance and application of transfer credit with your academic advisor. Your advisor may apply appropriate substitutions to your major's requirements in consultation with the appropriate program chair.




		What happens to my transcripts?
		




All transcripts are the property of Franklin University. Transcripts are not be released to any student or third party.






Tuition Guarantee Frequently Asked Questions


		Who qualifies for the tuition guarantee? 
		


New associate, bachelor’s and master’s degree-seeking students qualify for the guarantee. New students enrolling in undergraduate and master’s certificate programs, and teacher licensure programs are also eligible.




		What does the tuition guarantee include?
		


The tuition guarantee applies to the standard per credit hour rate at the undergraduate and master’s level, as well as the international student (F-1) rate Other fees and charges are subject to change. A complete list of other fees and charges can be found here.




		How does the tuition guarantee work?
		


New students lock-in to the tuition rate that is in effect during the term they first register for classes. Students will continue toward their degree at that tuition rate as long as they remain actively enrolled.




		How do students maintain their eligibility?
		


To maintain the guaranteed rate, students must maintain active-enrollment status as defined in Franklin University’s Academic Catalog by completing at least one term per year. Completing the term means that the student has received a verified, transcripted grade in at least one course. If a student does not complete one trimester per year, the student is required to re-apply. At the point of re-application, students are subject to the tuition rate for new registrants.




		How does the tuition guarantee impact financial aid/education benefits?
		


The tuition guarantee enables students to accurately anticipate tuition costs over the course of an entire degree program. This knowledge can help students better leverage all the financial resources at their disposal including federal financial aid, federal and state grants, institutional scholarships, direct loans, and employer-provided education benefits. However, enrollment status could impact awards and certain grant awards may change due to funding from the federal or state government.




		Do international (F-1) students qualify for the tuition guarantee?
		


Yes. The tuition guarantee applies to the international student (F-1) rate. International (F-1) master’s students pay the standard master’s level rate, which is also included in the guarantee. Students taking a break term will still maintain eligibility for the guarantee.






B.S. User Experience & Graphic Design


		How long does it take to get a UX design degree?
		


At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, if you’ve taken courses or have an associate degree in graphic design or photography, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish your bachelor’s in UX faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a user experience design degree?
		


Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my online degree in graphic design and user experience cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.




		What is a ux design degree?
		


This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. With Franklin University's user experience design degree (B.S. User Experience & Graphic Design), you'll explore the design and technical segments of user experience while using techniques like design thinking to solve real-world problems.




		What can you do with a UX degree?
		


With a UX degree (B.S. User Experience & Graphic Design) from Franklin, you'll be prepared to pursue roles like UX designer, UI designer and UX researcher in a variety of industries including startups, corporate design departments, design agencies or as a freelance UX designer.




		Why get a UX design degree?
		


Using a human-centered and empathetic approach, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the barriers users face when interacting with a product or service, with a Franklin B.S. User Experience & Graphic Design degree, you’ll combine experience design, interface design and graphic design to find solutions that are user-centered, useful and usable. 




		What makes Franklin’s UX degree unique?
		


Franklin University's interdisciplinary UX degree is designed and taught by experienced professionals. With its emphasis on project-based assignments, design-thinking and human-centered design, Franklin’s B.S. User Experience & Graphic Design equips students to work collaboratively to create seamless experiences that stem from understanding user-needs. In addition, Franklin’s 100% online coursework coupled with a generous transfer credit policy (up to 75% of the required credits) to make a UX degree fast and affordable for busy adults. 






B.S. Web Development


		How long does it take to get a Web Development degree?
		




Congratulations on wanting to finish your degree. At Franklin, we make it easy and convenient for busy, working adults to complete their bachelor's degree program alongside other commitments. Typically, a bachelor’s degree takes about 4 years of full-time study from start to finish. However, Franklin’s generous transfer policy can help you finish faster. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how your previously earned credits can save you time toward your bachelor’s.




		When can I start a Web Development degree?
		




Franklin makes getting started easy and convenient. We offer three trimesters every year, with start dates within each. Talk to your admissions advisor to find the start date that works best for you.




		How much will my Web Development degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $398 per credit hour and with our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money3




		What is a Web development degree?
		




This is a four-year undergraduate degree program. Because Franklin's B.S. Web Development degree program focuses on practical applications of technology to design, develop and deploy web sites, you'll be well-prepared upon graduation to create next-generation web experiences.




		What can you do with a Web Development degree?
		




With a B.S. Web Development degree from Franklin, you'll be prepared for a career designing, developing and deploying web sites as a web developer, web programmer, web producer or webmaster.




		Why get a Web Development degree?
		




Earning your B.S. Web Development degree from Franklin can give you the education you need to start or advance a career designing and executing web-based experiences.




		What makes Franklin’s Web Development degree unique?
		




Franklin's B.S. Web Development (WEBD) degree program provides a strong core of web development courses to give you a comprehensive study of this high-growth, in-demand career field.
















Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog