URL: https://www.franklin.edu/tuition-financial-aid/federal-state-aid
Financial Aid: Grants, Loans & Federal Workstudy | Franklin.edu



















Federal Aid & State Aid  

Home
                /  
                                              Tuition & Financial Aid
                /  
                                              Federal Aid & State Aid
                          

  Federal & State Aid for College



When it comes to paying for college, you have lots of options -- including federal and state financial aid. And, if you’re an eligible undergraduate student, you may be able to get a grant that does not need to be paid back (unlike student loans).The U.S. Department of Education, your home state, your college, organizations, private industry and nonprofits all offer a variety of financial aid and tuition assistance programs. Franklin annually awards about $13 million in instituitional aid each year, and more than half of our students receive federal financial aid. For more information on your eligibility, please visit Federal Student Aid.




Student Financial Services



			
  Contact Information

			


Phone:
614.797.4700 
877.341.6300
Fax:
614.255.9478
Email:
sfs@franklin.edu






			
  Office Hours

			


Appointment hours:To schedule an appointment, click here >Available by phone and in person:Monday - Wednesday:9:00am - 5:00pmAvailable by phone only:Thursday:9:00am - 5:00pmFriday:10:00am - 5:00pm












  Federal Student Aid




The U.S. Department of Education awards approximately $112 billion annually for college tuition, fees, books and other college expenses. You may be eligible to receive a portion of federal funding to help you pay for your college education and living expenses for the time that you are enrolled in classes. Federal financial aid comes in many forms, including grants, student loans and work-study programs.
Need some help finding free money for college? Download this free guide designed to help you find grants to cut college costs.





			
  Pell Grant

			


Details:For undergraduate students receiving their first bachelor's degreeFederal government grant, based on need. Amount awarded based upon enrolled hours. Changes in enrollment can affect eligibilityA Federal Pell Grant, unlike a loan, does not have to be repaid, except under certain circumstances. Find out why you might have to repay all or part of a federal grant.Available for full and part-time studentsLimited to 12 full-time equivalent semesters**Please note that you can receive the Federal Pell Grant for no more than 12 terms or the equivalent (roughly six years). You’ll receive a notice on your FAFSA Submission Summary (FSS) if you’re getting close to your limit.Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantYou may also receive the maximum Pell Grant if you meet the following criteria:you are not eligible for a Federal Pell Grant on the basis of your Student Aid Index (SAI), but meet the remaining Pell eligibility requirements; andyour parent or guardian was a member of the U.S. Armed Forces and died as a result of service performed in Iraq or Afghanistan after the events of September 11, 2001 and you were under 24 years of age OR enrolled in college at least part-time at the time of the parent's or guardian's death; oryour parent or guardian died in the line of duty while performing as a public safety officer and you were under 24 years of age OR enrolled in college at least part-time at the time of the parent's or guardian's deathyou have indicated on your FAFSA one of the above qualifications and have submitted the required documentation as requested in your Self ServiceFor more information, visit Federal Student Aid.How To Apply:Submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements.Amount:The eligible amount varies based on Student Aid Index (SAI) and enrollment status.2024-25: Not to exceed a maximum of $7,395 per year.  Although $7,395 is the maximum Pell Grant scheduled award for the 2024-25 award year, a student may be eligible to receive Pell Grant funds for up to 150 percent of the student's Pell Grant scheduled award for an award year. To be eligible for the additional Pell Grant funds, the student must be otherwise eligible to receive Pell Grant funds for the payment period.Deadline:Processed in date-received order






			
  Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG)

			


Details:Federal Grant based on extreme needEligibility based on availability of limited fundingThe FSEOG does not need to be repaid, except under certain circumstances. Find out why you might have to repay all or part of a federal grant.Available for full and part-time studentsMust be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantMet priority deadline by completing your FAFSA by the following date, based on your first term attended for the award year:Summer 2024 term: March 15, 2024Fall 2024: June 15, 2024Spring 2025: October 1, 2024How to Apply:Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements.Amount:This award is based on the availability of funds.2024-25: Maximum of $500 per term; $1,500 per year DeadlineYou must meet the priority processing deadline for the first trimester of enrollment of the award year.






			
  Federal TEACH Grant

			


A Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant is different from other federal student grants because it requires you agree to complete a teaching service obligation as a condition for receiving the grant, and if you don't complete the service obligation, the TEACH Grant will be converted to a loan that you must repay, with interest. If you do meet the service obligation, then the TEACH grant does not need to be repaid. The program provides grants of up to $4,000 a year to students who are completing or plan to complete course work needed to begin a career in teaching. TEACH Grants are available to Undergraduate and Graduate students. Find the Teach Grant application here.Details:For undergraduate and graduate studentsComplete TEACH Grant Agreement to Serve Complete TEACH Grant counseling TEACH Grant Information






			
  Federal Work-Study Program

			


Details:On-campus employment while you are in schoolOnly eligible to those students who have financial need based on information provided in FAFSAFunds are earned and repayment is not requiredAmount limited as to not exceed total Cost of Attendance for award yearMust be enrolled at least half-timeMust be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantWork with University faculty and staffReceive paycheck twice a monthHow to Apply:File a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements. You also must submit a FWS Employment Application to Franklin University’s Human Resources Office.Amount:Individual amounts may vary, but up to $5,000 per termDeadline:Preference is given to students who meet the priority processing deadline.






			
  Federal Direct Subsidized Loan

			


Details:Available for undergraduate students enrolled at least half-time, this program:Must have financial needMust be degree seeking in an undergraduate academic program and enrolled at least half-time (6 credit hours per term)Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantRepayment is required and begins when you graduate or cease to be enrolled at least half-time for a period of at least six months10-year repaymentInterest is paid by the federal government while in school and during deferment.Interest Rates:The interest rate for loans disbursed July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025 is 6.53%.Origination Fees:The origination fee for loans disbursed between Oct. 1, 2023 - Sept. 30, 2024 is 1.057%. How to Apply:File a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements. Complete a Master Promissory Note.Login at studentaid.gov to complete the Entrance Counseling.Suggested each year prior to a disbursement of a new federal student loan Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement.Amount:Freshman: not to exceed total of $3,500 annually; amount based on financial needSophomore: not to exceed total of $4,500 annually; amount based on financial needJunior/Senior: not to exceed total of $5,500 annually; amount based on financial needTotal Lifetime Aggregate: $23,000






			
  Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan

			


Details:Must be degree-seeking and enrolled at least half-time (3 credit hours Graduate/Doctoral; and 6 credit hours Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate)Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantRepayment is required and begins when you graduate or cease to be enrolled at least half time for a period of at least six months10-year repaymentBorrower is responsible for accrued interest while in school, during deferment, and grace periodFederal loan, not based on financial needUndergraduate Interest Rates:The interest rate for loans disbursed between July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025 is 6.53%.Undergraduate Origination Fees:   The origination fee for loans disbursed between Oct. 1, 2023 - Sept. 30, 2024 is 1.057%. Graduate/Professional Student Interest Rates:The interest rate for loans disbursed between July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025 is 8.08%.Graduate/Professional Student Origination Fees: The origination fee for loans disbursed between Oct. 1, 2023 - Sept. 30, 2024 is 1.057%. How to Apply:File a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements. Complete a Master Promissory Note.Login at studentaid.gov to complete the Entrance Counseling.Suggested each year prior to a disbursement of a new federal student loan Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement. Amount:Undergraduate Dependent:Freshman: not to exceed $5,500* annuallySophomore: not to exceed $6,500* annuallyJunior/Senior: not to exceed $7,500* annuallyAggregate Undergraduate Total Sub and Unsubsidized: $31,000 (no more than $23,000 may be sub)Undergraduate Independent:Freshman: not to exceed $9,500* annuallySophomore: not to exceed $10,500* annuallyJunior/Senior: not to exceed $12,500* annuallyLifetime total Aggregate Undergraduate Total Sub and Unsubsidized: $57,500 (no more than $23,000 may be sub), amount based on disbursements made as a dependent and independent studentGraduate/Professional:Annual: not to exceed $20,500 annuallyLifetime total Aggregate Total Sub and Unsubsidized: $138,500* (no more than $23,000 may be sub), amount based on disbursements made as an undergraduate and graduate/professional student*Less Federal Subsidized eligibility






			
  Federal Direct Parent Loan (PLUS)

			


Details:Federal Direct loan for parents of dependent students, not based on financial need; but may need to meet certain credit approvals based on determination of the Department of EducationStudent must be degree-seeking in an undergraduate program and be enrolled at least half-time (6 credit hours per term)Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantRepayment is required and begins within 60 days after the final disbursement for the academic year; Repayment may be deferred if certain conditions are metInterest Rates: The interest rate for loans disbursed between July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025 is 9.08%.Origination Fees: The origination fee for loans disbursed between Oct. 1, 2023 - Sept. 30, 2024 is 4.228%. How to Apply:Go to studentaid.gov and log in with your FSA ID and information (not student FSA ID information) to apply for the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan. Select 'Apply for a Direct PLUS Loan', and click on the 'Start' button for the Parent loan, and follow through to completion. Complete a Master Promissory Note.Suggested each year prior to a disbursement of a new federal student loan Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement. Amount:Cost of Attendance minus financial aid






			
  Federal Direct Graduate Loan (PLUS)

			


Details:Federal Direct loan for graduate/professional students, not based on financial need; may need to meet certain credit approvals based on determination of the Department of EducationStudent must be degree-seeking in a graduate or professional academic program and be enrolled at least half-time (3 credit hours per term)Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), not be in default of federal loans or have a current overpayment of a federal grantMust have applied for the annual loan maximum in unsubsidized loans before applying for GRAD PLUS loanRepayment is required and begins within 60 days after the final disbursement for the academic year; Repayment may be deferred if certain conditions are metInterest Rates:The interest rate for loans disbursed between July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2025 is 9.08%.Origination Fees:The origination fee for loans disbursed between Oct. 1, 2023 - Sept. 30, 2024 is 4.228%. How to Apply:Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements. You are required to complete Student Loan Entrance Counseling and Franklin’s Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Application located on the Documents & Forms page.Amount:Cost of Attendance minus financial aidAdditional Requirements:File a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements. Complete a Master Promissory Note.Complete Student Loan Entrance Counseling if you are a first-time borrower. If you have completed Student Loan Entrance Counseling at another school, please have verification of the counseling sent to Franklin. Suggested each year prior to a disbursement of a new federal student loan Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement. 






			
  Important Facts About Federal Direct Loans

			



Repayment begins 6 months after graduation, stops attending at least half time, or leaves school.
Standard repayment is 10 years, but there are other options available.
Interest rates are subject to change every July 1. View current rates and a loan calculator.
At least half-time attendance is required (undergraduate-6 semester hours; graduate-3 semester hours)
Franklin University requires student loan funds be applied directly to outstanding balances within the same financial aid year. If this creates a credit balance, a refund will be issued within 10-14 days.
Borrowing is a personal choice and should be made after careful consideration of the terms of the loan.









  State Financial Aid for College




Most states offer a variety of financial aid programs to help in-state residents pay for their college education. You may be eligible for state-funded grants or loans, depending on need and program requirements. Like federally funded programs, there are eligibility considerations and application deadlines, so be sure to understand and adhere to rules, requirements and deadlines.





			
  Ohio College Opportunity Grant  (OCOG)

			


Details:

State of Ohio grant, based on need
Must be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)
Limited to 10 full-time equivalent semesters of need-based State of Ohio grant aid
Available for full and part-time students
Seeking first associate's or bachelor's degree
Available for tuition and fees only
U.S. citizen and eligible non-citizen, in most instances
Be registered with the Selective Service if you are a male aged 18-25 year. Visit www.sss.gov for more information.
Ohio residency for 1 year required
Students entered into a consortium agreement or receiving a discounted tuition rate are subject to a recalculation based on regulations set by the Ohio Department of Higher Education. See OCOG eligibility calculation for additional information.

How to Apply:
Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and meet general FAFSA requirements.
Deadline:
2024-25: October 1, 2024






			
  Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency (PHEAA)

			


Details:

Are a high school graduate as stipulated in the Pennsylvania State Grant law
Attend a postsecondary school approved by PHEAA for Pennsylvania State Grant purposes
Are enrolled at least half-time (defined as at least six semester credits but less than 12 semester credits per semester, or the equivalent)
Be unconditionally admitted and enrolled in an approved program of study of at least 2 academic years in length
If enrolled at an institution that is not headquartered and domiciled in Pennsylvania, you must be enrolled in a program of study where at least 50% of the total credit or clock hours needed for completion of the program are earned through classroom instruction:
	
The program itself must be structured to allow you to complete at least 50% of your credits or clock hours in the classroom.
Your enrollment pattern by term must also consist of at least 50% classroom instruction (unless you have a medical disability). 




Have made satisfactory academic progress (as defined by PHEAA)
Not have already earned a bachelor's degree or its equivalent
Are a Pennsylvania resident, as stipulated in the Pennsylvania State Grant law
Are of satisfactory character (for example, not be incarcerated)
Not have received the maximum number of Pennsylvania State Grants permitted
Not be in default or pending default on an educational loan. This also applies to any program where the award has been converted to a loan and the loan is in a default status
File and complete the application process by the appropriate deadlines

For more detail, read the Rights and Responsibilities Certification Document (PDF).
Online Classes/Distance Education:
In order to be eligible to receive a PA State Grant if you're taking more than half of your classes online, you must be attending a school that is headquartered and domiciled in Pennsylvania.
How to Apply:
Apply at pheaa.org. For more information, call 1.800.692.7392
Deadline:
Pennsylvania State Grant Deadlines








  FAQs





		When do I need to complete my Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)?
		


To maximize your award, we recommend that you complete the FAFSA each year as soon as it becomes available. You will import your tax information from the year before the prior tax year to complete your FAFSA (2022 taxes for the 2024-25 FAFSA or 2023 taxes for the 2025-26 FAFSA). Although you can complete the FAFSA any time during the term, to be considered for maximum eligibility you must complete it before the posted deadlines.For 2025-26, the priority deadlines are:Summer Trimester: March 15, 2025Fall Trimester: June 15, 2025Spring Trimester: October 1, 2025Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.For more information, please visit Applying for Aid.




		What is a Federal Student Aid (FSA) ID?
		




An FSA ID is a registered username and password for signing into certain Federal Student Aid websites, including Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®), StudentLoans.gov and My Federal Student Aid. Your FSA ID is used to electronically sign Federal Student Aid documents, access your personal records and make legally binding obligations. Please keep your information secure. Parents who are required to sign a child's FAFSA need their own FSA ID, however, the parent's ID can be used to sign more than one child's application.




		Where do I get my FSA ID?
		


Visit the FSA ID log in page to create your FSA ID. Questions? Please call 1.800.4.FED.AID.




		How do I complete the FAFSA?
		




The fastest way is to complete the FAFSA online here. You may also search and download a printable form and mail it in, or complete an application by phone at 1.800.4.FED.AID.
Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.




		Where can I get assistance to complete the FAFSA?
		




You have three options for FAFSA assistance:

1. Real-time help from the Federal Student Aid Information Center (FSAIC) when completing the application online. Just click on the Contact Us tab.
2. Phone assistance by calling FSAIC at 1-800-4-FED-AID (TTY 1-800-730-8913).
3. In-person help from a Student Financial Services Counselor at Franklin. Please bring your FSA ID and application documentation, such as your federal tax returns.
Preparing to file your FAFSA? Download this free report and get insider tips to help you avoid common FAFSA mistakes and receive the maximum benefit possible.


See All >






  Back to College Blog





How Does Financial Aid Work?



How Much Does a Bachelor’s Degree Cost?



How Much Does an Online Bachelor’s Degree Cost?



How to Apply for Financial Aid for College



How to Pay for College Without Loans










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog