Academic Standards Policy for Graduate Students

Academic Credit and Courseload (GR)
Students should plan academic loads in consultation with a Graduate Academic Advisor. Academic load is designed as follows:

Full-time: 6 or more credit hours
Half-time: 3-5 credit hours
Less than half-time: 1-2 credit hours

This academic standards policy applies to all graduate students at Franklin University pursuing a Master’s or a Doctoral degree. To ensure Franklin University’s academic excellence standards, the following policy addresses academic performance during coursework.


Minimum Grade Requirement:

Graduate students must maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00 throughout their program of study in order to maintain a good academic standing.
Graduate students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 to graduate.
Graduate students are permitted to earn one grade of “C” (this includes a “C+,” “C,” or C-).
Any graduate student whose cumulative GPA falls below 3.0 at the end of a trimester, will be placed on academic probation and may be scheduled for academic counseling.
Academic Probation

Academic probation is a term assigned to students who fail to meet the academic standards requirements.


A graduate student placed on probation may attempt eight hours of coursework in order to return their overall cumulative GPA to 3.0. Students can achieve this in one of the following ways:
Retake a course to restore their GPA to 3.0
Earn a sufficient number of higher grades to restore their GPA to 3.0.
Coursework used to raise the GPA must be part of the normal degree requirements.
Any student who fails to attain a cumulative GPA of 3.00 within one grading period of enrollment following academic probation will be subjected to academic dismissal.
Academic Dismissal During Coursework

Academic dismissal is a status assigned to graduate students who have failed to maintain the academic standards of Franklin University following the academic probation period.

Once dismissed, students must appeal by following the readmission procedure to re-enroll in the same program from which they were dismissed.
Academically-dismissed graduate students seeking reinstatement to Franklin University in another graduate program may also submit an appeal by following the Readmission procedure. All graduate requirements outlined in this Academic Catalog continue to apply, including the rate of progress

Assessment (Assignments & Activities) Grading Guidelines
 
Grade	Guidelines	Typical Factors	Business Example
A	Superior Graduate Performance (exemplary work that greatly exceeds requirements)	All main points are clearly and precisely stated and contain a high degree of mature, creative and fully developed expression of ideas; no noticeable or distracting grammatical, typographical or spelling errors; completed work highly exceeds stated requirements; demonstrates superior level and type of expression; displays strong evidence of highly organized thought process.	Communicates the highest level of mastery. Project worthy of highlighting in your professional portfolio. Professor
would be honored to recommend you to do this type of work for a high-quality organization. Members of the executive
staff who review the project are highly interested in your work and may want to create (if one does not exist) an
advanced position in their area for you on the spot.
A-	Excellent Graduate Performance (greatly exceeds requirements)	All main points are clearly and precisely stated and contain evidence of innovation and creativity; minor grammatical or spelling errors; assignment demonstrates well above average and appropriate level and type of expression.	Communicates a high level of competence. Project worthy of inclusion in your professional portfolio. Professor would write a positive recommendation to others on your behalf to do this type of work for a high-quality organization. Members of the executive staff who review the project become interested and would consider placing you on a fast track for an advanced position in their functional areas.
B+	Above Expected Graduate Performance (somewhat exceeds requirements)	All main points were covered and well supported; relatively few grammatical, typographical or spelling errors; finished assignment demonstrated above average and appropriate level and type of expression.	Communicates above average competence. Could be included in a professional portfolio. Work clarifies action taken on behalf of an employer’s request. Your immediate superior, upon reviewing the project, believes that you can rationally
support your decisions and choices. Your supervisor may be interested not only in your work, but might consider
creating a new, or expanding the current, position for you to specifically perform this or similar type of work.
B	Expected Graduate Performance (meets all requirements)	All main points covered; relatively few noticeable and distracting grammatical, spelling and typographical errors; assignment demonstrated average and appropriate level and type of expression.	Communicates an average level of competence. Work may or may not qualify for inclusion in a professional portfolio highlighting your skills and abilities. Work provides specifically what was asked for. Your capabilities, as demonstrated by this work, will ensure a measure of confidence in your ability to meet the performance needs of the organization.
B-	Somewhat Below Expected Graduate Performance (does not meet some requirements)	Some main points missing; some organizational and structure problems exist; meets some stated requirements; several grammatical, spelling and typographical errors; assignment demonstrates below average and appropriate level and
type of expression.	Communicates below average level of competence. Work does not qualify for inclusion in a professional portfolio
highlighting skills and abilities. Work lacks required components. Would not succeed in moving beyond the current
position in organization without further development.
C	Clearly Below Expected Graduate Performance (does not meet many requirements)	Some main points are incomplete, while others are missing; major grammatical, spelling and typographical errors; evidence of disorganized thought process.	Demonstrates inability to perform in a competitive work environment. Work does not qualify for any reference
pertaining to skills and abilities. Work would justify assigning challenging projects to another employee.
F	Greatly Below Expected Graduate Performance (meets few or no requirements)	Highly disorganized work; poor use of English, large number of grammatical, typographical and spelling errors;
evidence of disorganized thought process.	Not acceptable.
I	Incomplete	
All course work has not been completed

One or more assignments has not been completed by the student
The student is currently passing the course
Typical factor for granting an Incomplete is a family emergency or some other unexpected occurrence that prevented submission of required assignment(s)
Awarding of an Incomplete is at the discretion of the professor and may not be appealed.
 
Break Term, Leave of Absence, Suspension, and Dismissal Policy for Doctoral Candidates
Doctoral candidates in the dissertation phase of their studies are expected to show evidence of successful progress, trimester to trimester, through their dissertation committee’s assessment of their work.


Break Term and Leave of Absence

Understanding that circumstances arise in one’s life that may require a doctoral candidate to briefly step away from their academic work, there are two conditions under which a candidate may temporarily pause their studies:


1. A doctoral candidate may voluntarily take a term off and not formally enroll in dissertation courses. The goal of the break is to focus on dissertation phase academic work, including research, writing, and analysis.


Because the purpose of the break term is to focus on their academic work, candidates on a break term will be able to utilize Franklin University library resources. The candidate’s dissertation committee will remain intact so when they return from this one-term break, they will resume where they left off.


Candidates must request a break term in writing to their doctoral program chair, indicate that their purpose in doing so is to continue their academic work, and request continued library access during the break term.


2. A doctoral candidate may take a voluntary leave of absence, lasting up to three consecutive terms, and pause their work on the dissertation, which includes research, writing, and analysis. All course registration and withdrawal policies still apply. The leave is due to conditions in a person’s life such as personal or professional needs.

If the doctoral candidate requires more than three consecutive terms, a new leave of absence must be requested and approved.


In order for the doctoral candidate to return to their studies from their leave of absence, either during or at the conclusion of the three consecutive terms, they must give a 45-day notice to the Doctoral Program Chair or Dean of Doctoral Studies. This action requires the reformulation of the dissertation committee, depending on the availability and interest of the named members. The candidate will resume their dissertation academic work from the point where they left it.


A doctoral candidate engaged in dissertation work may be counseled by the Dean of Doctoral Studies, or their designee, for the option of selecting a break term or leave of absence under these conditions.


Doctoral Suspension

A doctoral candidate engaged in dissertation work may be suspended under the following conditions:

Failure to meet required program expectations, as evidenced by two consecutive terms of a grade of N/C or No Credit;
A third failure to obtain IRB authorization to begin data collection;
Failure to maintain acceptable program enrollment, excluding an approved break term or leave of absence;
Conduct issues or academic integrity violations, as outlined in the University code of conduct policy; or
Issues around quality or capacity, discussed by the dissertation committee and Dean of Doctoral Studies.
Any doctoral candidate suspended from their program may appeal for reinstatement, at a later date, to the same program in which they were enrolled. A suspended candidate requesting program readmission must submit a written letter of appeal for program reinstatement at least 60 days before the start of the term in which the candidate proposes readmission. The letter of appeal must specify in detail the reasons and rationale for returning to their program work. The appeal must be directed to the appropriate Program Chair, who will then present the appeal to the Doctoral Studies Appeal Committee for consideration. The appeals committee will consist of: the appropriate Program Chair, the University Registrar or their designee, and the Doctoral Studies Dean or their designee. The decision of the appeals committee is final.


Doctoral Dismissal

Following an earlier suspension, or directly for certain infractions, a doctoral candidate may be dismissed from a Franklin University doctoral program for any of the reasons below:

Failure to maintain adequate academic status or progress, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
Receipt of additional no credit grades in dissertation courses, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
Failure to maintain acceptable program enrollment, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
Failure to meet required program expectations, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
A second failure on a dissertation defense;
A third failure to obtain IRB authorization to begin data collection, after an earlier suspension;
Issues around quality or capacity, discussed by the committee and Dean of Doctoral Studies; or
Conduct issues or academic integrity violations.
Doctoral dismissals are recommended by the Doctoral Studies Program Chair and determined by the Dean of Doctoral Studies and relevant University representatives. The decision of the dismissal committee is final.

Comprehensive Examination Retake Policy
Retaking the Comprehensive Exam

Doctoral students who have started their comprehensive examination are expected to show evidence of successful progress in their examination and must maintain acceptable DISS 9000 enrollment. Students must officially withdraw from DISS 9000 no later than 12:00 p.m. ET the Friday prior to the course start date or they will be considered enrolled in their first attempt.


Students pass the comprehensive examination by passing all three questions within their allotted attempts with an 84% or higher average for each question. Doctoral students must pass the comprehensive exam to matriculate to doctoral candidacy.


In the first attempt, students are given three questions to answer. For those students requiring a second attempt, those students are given replacement questions for any question(s) that the student did not successfully answer in the first attempt. These replacement questions can range from one to three questions. Students may take their second attempt during the initial DISS 9000 course or during a future DISS 9000 course no later than the following term. If a student chooses to defer their second attempt to a later course, they are required to pay tuition to enroll in the DISS 9000 course again. Students who fail their second attempt at the comprehensive exam may appeal for a third attempt no later than the following term.


For those students who appeal and are approved for a third attempt, they must retake their third attempt no later than the term following the rendered approval. Students are required to pay tuition to enroll in the DISS 9000 course for their third attempt, if granted. In the third attempt, students are given three new questions that must be answered successfully for them to proceed to dissertation. No prior responses are credited during the third attempt. Any student who does not successfully answer all three questions in their third attempt will be dismissed from doctoral studies at Franklin University.


Doctoral Suspension

A doctoral student in the comprehensive examination phase may be suspended under the following conditions:

Failure to maintain acceptable DISS 9000 enrollment;
Conduct issues or academic integrity violations, as outlined in the University code of conduct policy.
Doctoral Dismissal

Following an earlier suspension, or directly for certain infractions, a doctoral student in the comprehensive exam phase may be dismissed from Franklin University doctoral studies for any of the reasons below:

Failing the comprehensive examination two times, or failing the examination three times when a third attempt was granted through appeal;
Failure to maintain adequate academic status or progress, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
Failure to maintain acceptable DISS 9000 enrollment, including enrollment deadlines, following an earlier suspension and readmission;
Conduct issues or academic integrity violations, as outlined in the University code of conduct policy
Dismissed students and candidates will not be considered for admission to any Franklin University doctoral program.

Credit Hour Definition
Time Estimates & Credit Hours: Each credit hour equates to 30 hours of student instructional activities (SIA). Student instructional activities are defined as classroom time, assigned readings, and assignment preparation for students. The length of course does not impact the number of hours of SIA. For more information, see “Credit Hour Definition” in Academic Information section.
Doctoral Course Overload
Students cannot exceed full-time status (6-credits), by more than 167% = (16-credits) during the semester.
Students cannot exceed 2 courses at the same time.
Student may not take 2 courses together if one of them is a 12-week course.
Full-time status is considered 6 credits, but allowing a student to take 2 courses at a time, could allow students to take a maximum of 16 credits in a semester.
In order to apply for overload, students must have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours and have a 3.5 GPA or higher.
These are the requirements for course overload approval:

Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) students are excluded from this policy.

In order to apply for overload, students must have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours and have a 3.5 GPA or higher.

Course prerequisites must be fulfilled

Students must have no academic misconduct charges in which they were found responsible

Students must have earned a B or higher in each course of the previous semester (B- or lower, including Z grades are prohibited)
Forgiveness Policy (GR)
The Grade Forgiveness Policy was designed to be used only by former students whose previous academic performance at Franklin University was extremely poor (as determined by a cumulative GPA lower than 3.0), but who wish to return to the University. Usually, persons seeking permission to use the Grade Forgiveness Policy have not been students at Franklin University for several years. However, occasionally it is appropriate for permission to be granted to students who have no break in attendance. Students interested in further information should contact their Graduate Academic Advisor or the University Registrar no later than 30 days prior to the start of the trimester in which they request the policy to be implemented.


The policy gives Franklin University students a one-time opportunity to have their GPA recalculated. “C,” “Z” and “F” grades in graduate courses may be forgiven by changing them to a “CK,” “ZK” or “FK” grade by approval of the Chair of the graduate program. This removes them from the GPA calculation, but leaves them on the record.


An acceptable reason for this shall be:

the program has been changed and the student cannot retake a course to receive a passing grade, as that course number is no longer offered. Instead, the student has a passing grade in a new course that has replaced the old course. In this case it is reasonable to remove the grade of the old course from the GPA calculation by changing it to “CK,” “ZK” or “FK.”
In any other case, the approval for changing a grade may be done with the approval of the Provost. Documentation of the change shall be sent to the Graduate Academic Advisor and placed in the student’s file for historical record. Questions regarding financial aid and veterans benefits should be directed to OMVA@franklin.edu.

Grade Reports
Students may view and print grades at my.franklin.edu. No grades will be released by telephone.

Grades in Prerequisite Courses (GR)
Graduate students must successfully complete courses that are prerequisites to other courses; a grade of Incomplete (I) is not sufficient for continuation to the following course. This rule may be waived only by written permission of the Program Chair, with the consent of the faculty member whose course is involved.

Grading Guidelines (GR)
The assignment of a letter grade for a course is an indication of the student’s overall success in achieving the learning outcomes for the course. The course letter grade may be viewed as a summary statement of the student’s achievement in individual assessments (assignments and activities). These assessments are intended to identify for students their strengths as well as those areas in need of improvement. Students work is assessed according to the guidelines below.


Course-level Grading Guidelines:
A :  95 – 100% of the total possible points.
A-:  90 – 94% of the total possible points.
B+:  87 – 89% of the total possible points.
B:  84 – 86% of the total possible points.
B-:  80 – 83% of the total possible points.
C:  70 – 79% of the total possible points.
F:  <70% of the total possible points.

Graduate Academic Certificates and Post-Graduate Certificates
The Graduate Academic Certificate and Post-Graduate Certificate programs are a graduate-level program of study that concentrates on a specific body of knowledge within a field of study. It is intended to prepare, upgrade, or retrain a person for immediate application of the knowledge learned. The credits earned as part of this program of study can be applied to a related degree program at Franklin University.

Graduate Academic Certificate Program Requirements

The program must have a minimum of fifteen (15) credit hours with at least twelve (12) of those credit hours earned at Franklin University
Students must adhere to the same admissions standards as those entering the graduate program
All applicable prerequisites must be taken prior to enrolling in the required certificate courses
Courses must be completed with a grade of “B-” or better (Nursing post-graduate certificates require a "B" or better in all courses)
A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 is required to receive the certificate
Students seeking a certificate must attain the requirements for the graduate certificate within four years of the first trimester completed under a declared program. Thereafter, a student is bound by current Academic Catalog requirements.
Students should refer to the major programs section of the academic catalog that may outline additional requirements.
Students may earn more than one graduate certificate simultaneously or individually.
Application for Completion:

Every student in a certificate program must complete an application for completion in order for the certificate to be awarded. Please contact your Academic Advisor for the application.
Completed applications must be submitted to your Academic Advisor no later than 2 weeks prior to the end of the term of certificate completion.
There is a $25 fee due with your application. Franklin University will not issue certificates to students with unpaid balances.
Certificates will be mailed to the student’s home address at the end of the trimester of completion.

Graduate Program Reinstatement (Appeal of Academic Dismissal)
Academically-dismissed graduate students seeking reinstatement to Franklin University may submit an appeal to the Graduate Council. Students must appeal in writing using this form (https://tinyurl.com/FranklinReinstatement). Students may email graduate.advising@franklin.edu for additional assistance.


If the appeal is granted, the student will be required to meet with the Director of Admissions (or designated representative) and satisfy any pre-determined conditions for reinstatement as set by the Faculty Senate Sub-Committee on Reinstatement. Students have one opportunity to re-enroll in the same program from which they were dismissed. There is only one additional opportunity for a student to be reinstated into another graduate program. Further, admission into a different program will be subject to all admission requirements for that program. Students dismissed due to academic dishonesty are not eligible for reinstatement. The Faculty Senate Sub-Committee has the authority to grant or deny permission to use the Reinstatement Procedure. Students interested in further information should contact the Office of Admissions.

Institutional Review Board
The Institutional Review Board (IRB) is an administrative body established to protect the rights and welfare of human research subjects recruited to participate in research activities conducted under the auspices of the institution with which it is affiliated. The Franklin University IRB comprises faculty and staff members, as well as a community member not otherwise affiliated with the University, who are responsible for overseeing research projects involving human subjects.

The IRB reviews protocols and has the authority to approve, require modifications in, or disapprove all research activities that fall within its jurisdiction as specified by both the federal regulations and local institutional policy. The IRB makes its independent determination whether to approve or disapprove the protocol based upon whether or not human subjects are adequately protected.

Multiple Graduate Programs
Grade Point Average

Under certain academic conditions, the Grade Point Average (GPA) for a new program for a Franklin University graduate student will start over upon admission into each new graduate program:

If a student chooses to complete multiple graduate programs
If a student withdraws from a graduate program, in good standing, and chooses to return to begin a different graduate program
If a student is readmitted after going through the Reinstatement Process
Transfer Credit

According to the Ohio Department of Higher Education, each master’s degree must contain a minimum of 30 semester credit hours, used exclusively for that degree. Upon approval of the Program Chair, up to twelve hours of masters credit may be transferred into any graduate program. Such transferred graduate credit, whether from Franklin University (maximum of 8 credits) or another institution (12 credits), will not be calculated in the graduate student’s new GPA.

Policy on Corrections of Published Dissertations
Franklin University does not permit changes to published dissertations, except for the following situations.

For minor typographical errors, the University will permit the student to submit a correction on a separate errata sheet which must identify the original dissertation, the location and nature of the error, and the correction. The errata form must be submitted to the Office of Academic Scholarship at oas@franklin.edu
If the Office of Academic Scholarship approves the correction it will notify the dissertation committee of the correction and provide the errata to the Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) administrator who will post it as an additional file alongside the dissertation in the OhioLINK Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Center and Franklin University Scholarly Exchange (FUSE).
For cases of copyright infringement, or where a dissertation contains identifiable information on a study participant, the Office of Academic Scholarship may review the dissertation and determine whether the dissertation should be removed or edited.

Progression Standards for Nursing: MSN, DNP, Certificate, and Post-Graduate Certificate

A MSN, DNP, or post-graduate certificate student must achieve a “B” or better in each course required to earn the degree, certificate, or post-graduate certificate. Franklin University considers the grade of “B” (3.0) (B+ or B) or higher as representing “mastery” criteria. Students earning a B- or lower in a course leading to the MSN or DNP degree, certificate, or post-graduate certificate must repeat the course and may repeat the course only one time. A maximum of two courses may be repeated in the program.
For nurse practitioner courses only - students must complete the clinical component with a “meets expectation” AND earn a “B” or better in the course grade to pass the class.
Students in the MSN or DNP degree, certificate, or post-graduate certificate must maintain a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 (B). If a student’s cumulative grade point average falls below a 3.0, the Academic Standard for Probation and Dismissal will go into place. This policy can be found in the Franklin University Bulletin.
In lieu of academic dismissal, MSN or DNP degree, certificate, or post-graduate certificate students who do not satisfy these standards will have the option to change to a different graduate program, provided they satisfy the admission requirements for that program and are in compliance with the University's academic standards for graduate students.
Academically dismissed graduate students seeking reinstatement to Franklin University may submit an appeal to the Graduate Council. (Please see the Academic Standards policy in the Academic Catalog)

Rate of Progress (GR)
As evidence of satisfactory progress toward a graduate degree, students must complete all requirements for the degree within seven years of completion of the first graduate level course. Thereafter, a student is bound by current Academic Bulletin/Catalog requirements.

Residency (GR)
Complete the residency credit requirement (regardless of course delivery method such as online, face to face, hybrid, etc.): 


Master of Science – Instructional Design & Learning Technology, Master of Science in Business Analytics, Master of Science in Data Analytics, Master of Science in Health Informatics, Master of Science in Accounting, and Master of Arts in Criminal Justice Administration students must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 20 of the 32 required credit.


Master of Science - Nurse Administrator must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 21 of the 33 required credits.


Master of Business Administration, Master of Healthcare Administration, Master of Science in Business Psychology, Master of Science – Computer Science, Master of Public Administration, Master of Science in Human Resources Management, Master of Science in Cybersecurity, Master of Science in Information Technology, and Master of Science – Marketing & Communication students must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 24 of the 36 required credits.


Master of Science in Nursing students must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 26 of the 38 required credits.


Master of Science in Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner students must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 29 of the 41 required credits.


Doctorate students must earn in residence at Franklin University at least 27 of the 60 required credits. See the Transfer Student Guidelines (GR) for more information.


Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.

Retaking a Course for Credit (GR)
Any graduate student receiving a “C” (this will include “C+”, “C” and “C -”) or lower, in any course, may retake and complete that course with a “B” (this will include “B+”, “B” and “B-”) or better. Upon completion of a repeated course, only the cumulative GPA will be recalculated. Credit for the course will be given only once. If the course is no longer available, a replacement course will be identified by the Program Chair. In this case, the grade of the old course will be removed from the GPA calculation by changing it to “CK,” “ZK,” or “FK.” This policy does not, at any time, supersede the required minimum academic standards for continued enrollment as defined in the Academic Catalog.

Transfer Student Guidelines (GR)
Applicants from institutionally (formerly regionally) accredited institutions of higher education (or institutions recognized as candidates for accreditation) may be granted transfer credit based on an evaluation by Franklin University of official transcripts, course descriptions, and syllabi (if available) sent directly to the University from all colleges previously attended. Normally, credit will be accepted for comparable graduate courses completed with a grade of “B” or higher (or the equivalent) and completed within the time frame established for the subject area in question.


Master's Programs

Upon approval of the Program Chair, up to 12 hours of transfer credit may be used in any masters program. According to the Ohio Department of Higher Education, each master’s degree must contain a minimum of 30 semester credit hours, used exclusively for that degree. Transfer students must meet University residency requirements. Residency requirements equate to the total number of credit hours required for a specific program less the maximum of 12 masters credit hours that can be transferred in. For example, if the graduate program requires 30 credit hours less the 12 transfer credit hours, the Graduate residency requirements equal 18 graduate credit hours.


Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Physical Assessment and Advanced Pathophysiology with a “B” or better if completed within 5 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University.


Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Pharmacology with a “B” or better if completed within 3 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University.

Franklin University will waive these time restrictions and accept these courses; Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pathophysiology, and Advanced Pharmacology, for applicants who are currently employed as a nurse practitioner in primary or acute care as demonstrated by their resume or curriculum vita.


Students have the option to take a nationally normed examination to demonstrate proficiency for Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pharmacology, and Advanced Pathophysiology. If the student earns a score equivalent to 84% or better, transfer credit will be awarded. This option is available only to students who have completed one of the courses beyond the enrollment periods.

Transfer credit cannot be applied for credit in NURS 500 or NURS 612.


Post-Graduate Certificates

Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Physical Assessment and Advanced Pathophysiology with a “B” or better if completed within 5 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University.


Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Pharmacology with a “B” or better if completed within 3 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University. Franklin University will waive these time restrictions and accept these courses; Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pathophysiology, and Advanced Pharmacology, for applicants who are

currently employed as a nurse practitioner in primary or acute care as demonstrated by their resume or curriculum vita.


Students have the option to take a nationally normed examination to demonstrate proficiency for Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pharmacology, and Advanced Pathophysiology. If the student earns a score equivalent to 84% or better, transfer credit will be awarded. This option is available only to students who have completed one of the courses beyond the enrollment periods.


Doctoral Programs

Franklin University is the University of Opportunity and, within Doctoral Studies & Academic Research, we commit to our No-Fear Dissertation™ process. We’ve intentionally designed a doctoral program structure to help you complete your dissertation step-by-step, beginning with your enrollment in the program.


It’s good practice to start your doctoral journey with an idea of the topic area you want to explore in your dissertation work. This will allow you to focus your early research (during coursework) around that general topic in order to investigate it through various lenses. As a result, you will be able to refine your questions over your course of study and hone your research focus at the end.


We’ve built in faculty mentoring and guidance, along with peer-to-peer support, to help you navigate each stage of the program so you’re never left to “figure it out” on your own. Our entire doctoral process, including our No-Fear Dissertation™, is designed to support you through the design and implementation of your research study, the analysis of the results, the report of findings, and then the writing, defending, and publishing of the dissertation. The No-Fear aspect of this process means that we will provide you all the support you need to successfully complete each and every phase of the doctoral journey.


The intended outcome of this support is that you are fully prepared to successfully complete your research study and publish your dissertation based on coursework you have either transferred in or completed at Franklin University. While you may be able to transfer in some coursework*, we have identified courses that must be completed at Franklin University. These required courses ensure that prerequisites have been met prior to taking more advanced courses, or in preparation for the dissertation, and we can be certain as a result that you meet curriculum outcomes, exhibit proficiency within our courses, and possess a mastery of research methods and study design. Each of these components of your study is critical to successful research preparation and dissertation completion. These courses are:

Two introductory courses in writing and research
At least half of the major area courses
Intermediate and advanced elective research core courses
All the dissertation work
Franklin University’s Doctoral Studies programs do allow you the flexibility to transfer in credit outside of these specified requirements from prior doctoral studies, or possibly other graduate courses, depending on the level to which these courses meet the learning outcomes for our equivalent courses. Within our degrees, credit for the courses in a focus area may be transferred in, but the focus area would not appear on the diploma. Our fully qualified transfer credit department, under guidance from our faculty and disciplinary experts, will review the course information to make that determination. This team will reach a decision based on course title, course description, and course learning outcomes from the course(s) you have completed.


On occasion, we will request a course syllabus, if one is available, so we may determine if the course you have completed adequately meets the preparation needs for successfully completing the dissertation. Statistics courses provide a good example of why we do this: We need to know that you have studied inferential statistics, not only descriptive statistics, in previous coursework.


Please allow us to discuss the possibilities for transferring in credit with you.


*Upon approval of the Lead Faculty, up to 33 hours of transfer credit may be used in any doctorate program*. Transfer students must meet University residency requirements. Students in the Doctorate of Nursing Practice program should see the next section for details.


Doctor of Nursing Practice

Students in the Doctorate of Nursing Practice - Leadership Track program can transfer in a maximum of 12 credit hours. Students in the Doctor of Nursing Practice - Nurse Practitioner Tracks can transfer in a maximum of 9 credit hours.


Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Physical Assessment and Advanced Pathophysiology with a “B” or better if completed within 5 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University.


Franklin University will accept for transfer Advanced Pharmacology with a “B” or better if completed within 3 years of enrollment, otherwise students will be required to complete the course at Franklin University.

Franklin University will waive these time restrictions and accept these courses; Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pathophysiology, and Advanced Pharmacology, for applicants who are currently employed as a nurse practitioner in primary or acute care as demonstrated by their resume or curriculum vita.


Students have the option to take a nationally normed examination to demonstrate proficiency for Advanced Physical Assessment, Advanced Pharmacology, and Advanced Pathophysiology. If the student earns a score equivalent to 84% or better, transfer credit will be awarded. This option is available only to students who have completed one of the courses beyond the enrollment periods.