URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/healthcare-administration/human-resources
MHA Human Resources Specialization Master's Degree | Franklin.edu



















Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources Specialization
 

  36Credit Hours14Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              Healthcare Administration (MHA)
                /  
                                              Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources
                          

  Earn your MHA HR and transform how the healthcare industry helps the people who help people


An evolving workforce, technological advancements and calls for more diversity, equity and inclusion are impacting the healthcare industry. This is leading to even greater demand for HR-focused healthcare leaders – leaders who can identify challenges, set priorities and develop strategies that strengthen capacity, capabilities and worker satisfaction. Franklin’s 100% online MHA with a Specialization in HR will prepare you to lead growth-minded hospital systems and healthcare organizations toward both talent and business success.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  14-Month Completion
Finish your MHA faster.



  Fulfilling Work
Drive positive change and make a lasting impact.



  Groundbreaking Strategies
Lead and inspire employees at all levels.



  Top-Notch Networking
Learn from faculty and peers who are in-field professionals.



  100% Online Classes
Take classes that fit with your busy life.



  Contemporary Curriculum
Be at the forefront of trends and technologies.











  MHA-Human Resources Specialization Program Overview





  Lead healthcare toward a new, more sustainable talent and workforce model

The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that there is a "profound shortage of human resources" for the healthcare industry. Given the fact that healthcare is in the business of caring for people, it only makes sense that leaders are needed to care for the people who care for them.What's needed in today's (and tomorrow's) healthcare environment are leaders who can move human resources in healthcare toward a more flexible yet sustainable model marked by dynamic talent, an engaged workforce and a culture of empowerment.As such, demand for healthcare leaders is strong and growing stronger. As an industry, healthcare is on a serious growth trajectory with a project growth rate of 19.70% through 2032.*Go further in your career faster when you earn an MHA-HR – a unique degree not offered at most universitiesThe healthcare industry is experiencing a shortage of HR-focused leaders. You could be at the forefront of this growing segment of an ever-changing industry with Franklin University’s 100% online MHA with a Specialization in HR. Our healthcare in human resources master’s will equip you to lead the workforce function across a variety of healthcare systems, hospitals and medical groups. Most MHA programs don’t offer the MHA human resources specialization – so Franklin’s program enables you to differentiate yourself. Plus, you can earn your MHA-HR in as few as 14 months.Earn the MHA degree that prepares you to become part of the healthcare leadership teamWith an online MHA-HR degree from Franklin, you’ll develop human resources knowledge and skills specifically related to the healthcare industry, including leadership and strategy, operations management, law and policy, accounting and finance, and management.Our healthcare-human resources master’s degree program is aligned with industry best practices and our coursework incorporates emerging and relevant trends. So, if you’re looking to become part of human resources leadership in a healthcare organization, Franklin’s MHA-HR can help prepare you for such roles as director of human resources, human resources manager and human resources business partner.Your online MHA with a specialization in HR will challenge you through a variety of academic methodologies, including case studies, lectures, group assignments, and community and healthcare projects. You’ll also be exposed to essential human resources in healthcare topics, such as employment and workplace law, healthcare talent management and organizational development.Grow in your leadership skills with relevant curriculum informed by top healthcare executivesTo ensure the most relevant curriculum for our students, we rely on the input of an industry-specific Advisory Board to oversee our MHA-HR master’s degree program. Board members include top-level executives like the hospital president and COO of Mt. Carmel East Hospital, a medical association CEO, an SVP at Nationwide Children’s Hospital, and the president of Grady Memorial Hospitals.*Source information provided by Lightcast.Read more >






  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value Master of Healthcare Administration




Choose Franklin's MHA and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates for the Master of Healthcare Administration provide value and quality.







Take One Class at a Time




Balance your education with your life.







Finish Fast


14
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner and reap the benefits.







Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$24,120
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×








  Master of Healthcare Administration Courses & Curriculum




				36 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




HCM 733 - Finance and Managerial Accounting in Healthcare Organizations (4)
The purpose of this course is to provide students with the fundamental concepts and calculations associated with financial accounting and managerial accounting within a healthcare organization. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting with a primary focus on financial statements and the uses of the information in these statements. Students will also study the functional aspects of managerial accounting to include cost behavior, cost allocation, pricing, planning, budgeting, profit analysis, and performance evaluation. Application of these concepts will include analysis of case studies.


HCM 735 - Healthcare Delivery Systems (4)
The course provides an extensive overview of leadership in the U.S. health services system. The focus of the course will be on the role health services leadership plays in the delivery of healthcare services, to include managing with professionals, financial management, services utilization, and other aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. The student will explore the key theoretical and practical elements of leadership as well as current issues clarifying how the U.S. health services system is organized, managed, and financed.


HCM 742 - Healthcare Laws and Ethics (4)
In this course students will develop a strong foundation in health law, enabling them to deal with the common legal, practical, moral, and ethical issues that healthcare organizations face on a daily basis. Topics will include statutory law, rules and regulations, tort law, criminal law, contract law, civil procedures, and trial procedure.


HCM 752 - Health Policy (4)
This course will explore the essential conceptual and analytical understanding of health policymaking and politics, including their impact on health administration and leadership.  Selected policy issues will be explored through the application of political concepts and behavioral models, including a system model of policymaking. The emphasis will be on understanding the health leader?s approach to the policymaking system, become involved in it, and work through it to attain their objectives and those of their organization.


HCM 765 - Healthcare Operations Management (4)
Students will explore concepts and theories of operations management. The student will develop both knowledge and skills in solving the operational problems of healthcare organizations. This course will examine process improvement models that are aimed at improving the safety and quality of healthcare delivery within an organization. 


HCM 772 - Healthcare Strategic Management (4)
The student will examine principles of strategic management applied to healthcare organizations. This Capstone course through critical assessments of the real world environment and case studies on strategy formulation, implementation, and evaluation will examine alternative strategic frameworks for healthcare organizations. Topics will include, mission, vision statement development, environmental assessments, analysis of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, use of critical success factors, development of business plans, and other techniques for strategic planning and management.





				MHA or MHA with Specialization			




MHA:

HCM 762 - Global Health (4)
The student will examine demographic measurements, epidemiological methods, outcomes assessment, health promotion, and disease prevention from a global perspective.
HIM 702 - Health Information Governance (4)
This course covers the broad spectrum of strategic issues in healthcare including policies, guidelines, standards, processes, and controls required to manage and implement enterprise-level information. Treating information as a strategic asset to healthcare organizations, processes to manage various risks to the quality of information and ensure its appropriate use are covered.


																					AND																			

HIM 710 - Clinical Workflow & Applications (4)
This course explores requirements for clinical workflows in a variety of inpatient, outpatient, and emergency healthcare environments. It covers the documentation, review, mapping, and diagramming of clinical workflow information and processes. The course also covers the linkages between the improvement of patient care to workflow mapping and change management, as part of evidence based decision making in healthcare.
OR HIM 761 - Healthcare Analytics (4)
This course addresses the process of retrieving, analyzing, and reporting intelligence to make healthcare decisions. It covers the techniques of extracting, transforming and loading data from a myriad of operational databases into corporate data warehouses, as well means to ensure that decision making is based on clean and reliable information. The course also includes ways to report the healthcare intelligence gathered.
OR GRAD 770 - Lean Six Sigma (4)
The purpose of this course is to train individuals in Lean Six Sigma skills and strategies to improve processes and provide safe, effective care environments. The learner will demonstrate the practical application of tools utilized with Lean Six Sigma methodologies. Students will have the opportunity to apply the knowledge learned during this course concurrently with a case study designed specifically to use Six Sigma methodologies. Students will develop a Lean Six Sigma project plan that can serve as the foundation for completing a major project for Lean Six Sigma certification following the completion of the course. Interested students would need to apply for Lean Six Sigma certification and complete the major project with Franklin University's Center for Professional Training & Development.
OR PUAD 701 - Foundations of Public Service and Administration (4)
This foundational course provides an introduction to the social, economic, political, and ethical context of public administration in the United States. Students examine how public sector values differentiate government from the private sector and develop skills for critically evaluating issues faced by public administrators.
OR PSYC 603 - Managerial Psychology (4)
This course will explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders. Topics include: follower influences, nature vs. nurture in the development of leaders, relationship of personality to leadership style, behavioral decision- making biases, tactical, operational, and strategic decision-making , group think, and scenario planning.
OR HRM 713 - Human Resource Management (4)
Organizations are composed of groups of people who work together to achieve defined outcomes. Experience has proven time and again that the key factor which differentiates successful companies from those who struggle to survive is people who make up the employee base. While the human resources function is given the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee-related issues and needs, individual managers have direct responsibility and accountability for motivating and leading employees to achieve sustained organizational success. The purpose of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work effectively with human resources to enhance the contributions of all employees to organizational effectiveness. Students will learn about the elements which drive business success, theories of motivation, and methods for creating a plan for maximizing the human capital of an organization.



																					OR																			

Organizational Leadership Specialization:

MGMT 780 - Organizational Leadership Theories (4)
This course provides an overview of the historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs. Application and assessment of the individual leadership style will enable the student to develop their leadership voice.  This course will provide a construct that will enable the student to identify transferrable skills that align with the organization that they are serving in.  This course will challenge students to assess their own leadership strengths and weaknesses and produce an in-depth plan of action to develop and refine leadership competencies. Students will conduct substantive scholarly research to address and capture relevant and cutting-edge leadership theoretical work for application in course assignments.
MGMT 785 - Change Management for Organizational Leaders (4)
This course focuses on research and evaluation of the key theoretical concepts and practices central to the leading of organizational change initiatives. Students will evaluate real-world situations in a manner that supports the ability to initiate, implement and sustain major change. The management of change is a dynamic process. This course focuses on understanding how to plan and implement change in various organizations and other settings.

 
PSYC 603 - Managerial Psychology (4)
This course will explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders. Topics include: follower influences, nature vs. nurture in the development of leaders, relationship of personality to leadership style, behavioral decision- making biases, tactical, operational, and strategic decision-making , group think, and scenario planning.



																					OR																			

Operational Excellence Specialization:

GRAD 770 - Lean Six Sigma (4)
The purpose of this course is to train individuals in Lean Six Sigma skills and strategies to improve processes and provide safe, effective care environments. The learner will demonstrate the practical application of tools utilized with Lean Six Sigma methodologies. Students will have the opportunity to apply the knowledge learned during this course concurrently with a case study designed specifically to use Six Sigma methodologies. Students will develop a Lean Six Sigma project plan that can serve as the foundation for completing a major project for Lean Six Sigma certification following the completion of the course. Interested students would need to apply for Lean Six Sigma certification and complete the major project with Franklin University's Center for Professional Training & Development.
OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.
OSCM 780 - Introduction to Operations Excellence (4)
Operational excellence can provide an important competitive advantage for firms in today?s marketplace.  This course presents the concepts in quality.  It builds upon the responses of six sigma and lean principles.  This course also blends qualitative and quantitative information so that organizations can capitalize on opportunities and data driven management.



																					OR																			

Human Resources Specialization:

HRM 702 - Employee Rights, Responsibilities, Discp (4)
The primary purpose of this course is to introduce the principle theories and practices in the area of employment and workplace law. Topics include the federal and state laws associated with hiring, firing and discipline, medical leave (including FMLA, ADA and worker's compensation), discrimination, harassment, immigration, labor law, unemployment compensation, workplace privacy. Additional topics may include workplace investigations, workplace violence and employment-related legal processes, including EEOC Charges and lawsuits.
HRM 706 - Organizational Development/Intervention (4)
This course addresses the need for planned change focused on an organization's ability to compete strategically. The framework of consultation as helping organizations reach a level of optimum performance will be applied. Topics addressed include individual, team, and organization-wide interventions that can raise productivity/quality, improve competitiveness, increase skills, morale, and commitment.
HRM 708 - Strategic Human Resource Planning (4)
The course will introduce students to the field of strategic human resource management (SHRM). Current topics in SHRM that have resulted from environmental and organizational challenges, e.g., technology, globalization, legislation, restructuring, work/life balance, changing labor markets, are discussed Emphasis will be placed on problem solving issues, policies, and practices affecting HR specialists, practitioners, and managers.






				Optional Focus Areas			



Health Informatics:

HIM 710 - Clinical Workflow & Applications (4)
This course explores requirements for clinical workflows in a variety of inpatient, outpatient, and emergency healthcare environments. It covers the documentation, review, mapping, and diagramming of clinical workflow information and processes. The course also covers the linkages between the improvement of patient care to workflow mapping and change management, as part of evidence based decision making in healthcare.
HIM 761 - Healthcare Analytics (4)
This course addresses the process of retrieving, analyzing, and reporting intelligence to make healthcare decisions. It covers the techniques of extracting, transforming and loading data from a myriad of operational databases into corporate data warehouses, as well means to ensure that decision making is based on clean and reliable information. The course also includes ways to report the healthcare intelligence gathered.


																					AND																			

Adding a focus area provides an opportunity for customization but is not required for completion of the degree. The focus area requires two additional courses.











Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Global Health



Healthcare Delivery and Operations



Healthcare Finance and Accounting



Healthcare Law and Policy





Learn More







  Master of Healthcare Administration Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the Master of Healthcare Administration matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Healthcare Administration students must earn least 24 of the 36 required credits at Franklin University.Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
None




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.






Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Bruce Hagen
Ohio Health Marion
Retired


Mark Holroyd
Medspeed, LLC
Regional VP


Jessica Neiberg
Ohio Department of Medicaid
Mgr. of Network Mgmt. + Ops.


Abraham Parail, MD
Grant Medical Center
Dir. Card. Cath. Lab + Intervention


Lana Uhrig
Emory University
Vice President of Cancer Nursing


Bruce Vanderhoff
Ohio Department of Health
Director


Theodore Washienko
Bon Secour Health System
Retired


Jangus Whitner
Apexus LLC
Mgr, 340B Education + Compliance








Employment Outlook





25%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Healthcare are expected to increase by 25%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Human Resources Managers
$136,344
195,533
11%




Human Resources Managers
									Median Salary: $136,344

									Job Postings: 195,533

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionHuman Resources Managers plan, direct, or coordinate human resources activities and staff of an organization. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsHuman Resources Managers63,25432%Human Resources Business Partners54,58528%Directors of Human Resources31,31316%Directors of Diversity and Inclusion7,0614%Talent Acquisition Managers4,7212%Directors of Talent Acquisition4,2932%Staffing Managers2,7911%Human Resources Partners3,3472%Recruiting Managers2,4811%Workforce Managers2,4151%People Business Partners2,2721%Workforce Management Managers1,9161%Vice Presidents of Human Resources3,0092%Human Resources Supervisors2,7011%Employee Relations Managers1,6881%Talent Managers1,7861%Human Resources Operations Managers1,5211%HRIS Managers1,5261%Employee Experience Managers1,3201%Directors of People and Culture1,5331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsEmployee Relations45,27131%Performance Management34,61124%Human Resources Information System (HRIS)24,06116%Talent Management23,96016%Project Management22,92716%Human Resource Management22,86316%Employee Engagement18,79913%Labor Law17,51612%Succession Planning16,06911%Talent Acquisition15,92811%Change Management15,75811%Human Resource Strategy13,1569%Business Strategies12,9149%Organizational Development12,5189%Workforce Planning12,1788%Labor Relations12,0158%Data Analysis11,9718%Auditing11,8468%Employee Onboarding11,1658%Continuous Improvement Process11,0588%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement of Companies and Enterprises13%Federal Government, Military6%Employment Services5%Computer Systems Design and Related Services5%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals4%Other65% 
Medical and Health Services Managers
$110,677
353,327
30%




Medical and Health Services Managers
									Median Salary: $110,677

									Job Postings: 353,327

									Projected Growth: 30%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionMedical and Health Services Managers plan, direct, or coordinate medical and health services in hospitals, clinics, managed care organizations, public health agencies, or similar organizations.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsDirectors of Nursing74,53221%Patient Care Coordinators44,56713%Medical Directors25,4997%Clinical Supervisors24,1877%Directors of Rehabilitation31,4619%Patient Services Coordinators14,9524%Care Coordinators11,8753%Patient Coordinators12,0253%Referral Coordinators10,5383%Laboratory Managers12,5624%Clinical Directors18,5855%Clinical Managers12,9314%Referral Specialists6,5512%Clinic Managers7,4562%Nursing Home Administrators10,6353%Directors of Nursing/Registered Nurses8,4462%Clinical Coordinators6,3812%Patient Care Managers7,3542%Laboratory Supervisors6,2982%Directors of Behavioral Health6,4922%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNursing96,01221%Care Coordination61,08813%Medical Records46,05110%Billing39,9069%Auditing36,7158%Electronic Medical Record33,8407%Marketing33,8247%Social Work31,7077%Case Management31,4397%Workflow Management30,9607%Quality Improvement29,8986%Project Management27,8916%Behavioral Health27,3426%Mental Health26,6246%Home Health Care26,1906%Rehabilitation25,7476%Medical Terminology25,4096%Clinical Experience24,4605%Healthcare Industry Knowledge24,0755%Medicare23,6115%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryGeneral Medical and Surgical Hospitals23%Offices of Physicians13%Outpatient Care Centers7%Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)6%Home Health Care Services5%Offices of Other Health Practitioners4%Other42% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Healthcare Administration Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Healthcare Strategic Leadership & Change Management

			


Analyze healthcare workforce needs and design effective talent management strategiesImplement robust recruitment, selection and onboarding processes for healthcare employeesConduct training needs assessments and develop impactful training programs for healthcare professionalsUnderstand competitive compensation structures, benefits packages and performance-based reward systems for healthcare workersConduct job analysis, market surveys and develop compensation plans that attract and retain top healthcare talent






			
  Healthcare Employee Relations & Compliance

			


Apply labor laws, collective bargaining, and best practices in employee grievance handling within the healthcare contextFoster positive labor-management dynamics and promote constructive conflict resolutionDevelop and administer equitable HR policies and procedures that ensure compliance with healthcare regulationsLeverage HR technology to automate and streamline compensation and benefits management






			
  Healthcare Leadership & Strategy

			


Assure delivery of high-quality, equitable and patient-centered careCoordinate with boards of directors, medical staff and senior management in the development of strategic plansParticipate in strategic planning, ensuring resources are aligned with missionOversee strategic and tactical plans for ensuring competitive positioningInform stakeholders on business, market and political factors affecting healthcare environmentsIdentify new business opportunities that benefit organizations while meeting community needsRepresent organizations in relationships and negotiations with healthcare agencies, partners and communitiesMonitor trend analyses, medical cost-containment strategies, provider network evaluations, rate-setting support analyses, provider reimbursement and risk-sharing strategies






			
  Healthcare Operations Management

			


Foster smooth, efficient operations by anticipating problems and ensuring timely resolutionsLead operations in accordance with customer needs, government regulations and organizational policiesDirect, supervise and coordinate staff activities in support of strategic plans, providing cost-effective, quality careEnsure high-quality healthcare delivery that meets or exceeds standards within a reasonable cost structureDevelop roadmaps and implementation plans for capitalizing on strategic opportunitiesEvaluate vendors, provide recommendations for selection, and manage post-selection vendor relationshipsDefine and implement management execution systems strategies for global supply chains using business governance models that support short- and long-term supply chain goalsAct as primary operational expert, ensuring smooth operation of strategic processesOversee initiatives that address societal issues contributing to poor health, toward the betterment of global and national communitiesImplement process improvement methodologies to enhance operational efficiency and patient experience






			
  Healthcare Law & Policy

			


Implement patient care, staffing and other policies and procedures to remain compliant with local, state and federal regulations, and facility bylawsOversee facility inspections, including obtaining required data from accrediting agencies and working with functional areas to facilitate continuous flow of informationProvide leadership and guidance for quality assurance and utilization review programsInterface with government and non-government regulatory and accrediting agencies to advocate on behalf of clinical programsAnalyze state and local budget proposals to determine impact on healthcare and public programsTrack budget development throughout legislative processesManage legislative policy and budget research, data analyses and coalition workDevelop and implement policies that promote ethical decision-making and social responsibility






			
  Healthcare Accounting & Finance

			


Prepare and monitor annual budgets, demonstrating expected revenues and expenditures in conformity with fiscal programs and policiesOversee preparation of administrative budgets and the development of transparent and relevant fiscal and operational reportsEnsure sound fiscal operations while promoting cost-effective production of servicesImplement effective financial models, and cost and revenue allocation strategiesMonitor key metrics, such as operational volumes, expenses, service utilization, market share and profitabilityAnalyze cost performance, administrative costs, and financial performance to identify opportunities for improved profitabilityMake key business decisions based on financial-related data, such as cost projects, premium rate filing, provider contracts, medical and administrative expenses, benchmarking and performanceLeverage data analytics to optimize financial performance and resource allocation






			
  Management

			


Attract, recruit, manage and inspire A-list employees who move organizations forwardUse innovative assessment tools to assist in making optimal hiring decisionsAnalyze job evaluations, salary surveys, and individual and group performance-based payDrive best-in-class management and succession planning processes, ensuring the right talent for the right roles at the right timeDesign and develop competitive compensation and reward strategiesEstablish and maintain fair and equitable compensation and benefits programsCreate long-term human capital development initiatives to establish and maintain global competitivenessManage strategic roadmaps for maximizing employee performance and creating business valueIdentify key forces impacting future workforce, such as skill shortages, economic conditions and changes to business strategiesUnderstand current workforce in terms of metrics and trends, developing key insights into the story behind the dataDevelop and maintain employee relations, ensuring coordination of quality patient care and service delivery to achieve business development goalsPromote a diverse, inclusive and equitable work environment that supports employee well-being and engagement







  Find the Human Resources Program That Fits Your Goals




If you’re interested in advancing your human resources career, Franklin has several great options. The best fit for you depends on your interests and goals. Compare programs and identify your perfect match.









icon_tiles/it-cross-color
Created with Sketch.













icon_tiles/it-cross-white
Created with Sketch.












								MHA-Human Resources
			





icon_tiles/it-briefcase-color
Created with Sketch.



















icon_tiles/it-briefcase-white
Created with Sketch.


















								MBA Human Resources
			





icon_tiles/it-people_leader-color
Created with Sketch.














icon_tiles/it-people_leader-white
Created with Sketch.













								M.S. Human Resources
			



Focus: Strengthen your understanding of the HR function and talent acquisition within the complex landscape of healthcare.Skills: Deepen your HR and leadership skills within the context of the healthcare setting to design effective and efficient talent management strategies.Careers: Let your MHA-HR put you in charge of balancing the needs of the business of healthcare with the needs of the people delivering and receiving it. How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months


Focus: Grow your expertise in the foundational areas of business while increasing your familiarity with strategic HR, employment law and organizational development.Skills: Build management and leadership skills alongside a deeper understanding of strategic and legal HR issues, and the impacts of planned change.Careers: Use your MBA-Human Resources to lead diverse workforces in an ever-changing business environment.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?12 Months


Focus: Advance your leadership capabilities as well as your ability to oversee benefit plans, navigate labor laws and develop talent management strategies. Skills: Get the skills to navigate compensation systems, strategic HR, organizational leadership, employment law and organizational development.Careers: Put your M.S. in Human Resource Management to work leading HR functions in a variety of industries.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months 








  MHA-HR Frequently Asked Questions






		What is a Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) with a specialization in Human Resources Leadership degree?
		


Franklin University's MHA-HR master’s degree program is designed to equip you with the management knowledge and skills you need to excel as a leader and change agent in our nation’s growing and diverse healthcare system. In this MHA-HR degree program, you'll learn the theoretical and practical application skills needed to help healthcare organizations stay competitive by recruiting and developing top talent.




		What can you do with a human resources in healthcare master's degree (MHA-HR)?
		


As a professional with Franklin University's MHA-HR degree, you'll be well prepared for a leadership role within the industry that is one of the largest employers in the nation: healthcare. Your advanced credentials will prepare you for a variety of HR leadership roles, including director of human resources, HR manager and human resources business partner.




		Why get an MHA-HR master's degree?
		


With an MHA (master’s in healthcare administration) degree with an HR specialization, you’ll be qualified to become a human resources leader in healthcare talent management strategies, including recruiting, training and compensation.




		How long does it take to earn an MHA-HR degree?
		


Franklin's MHA-HR master's degree program is specifically designed for busy, working adults, so you could finish your degree in 14 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s MHA with a specialization in Human Resources unique?
		


Franklin’s MHA HR is a 14-month, 100% online, master’s degree program designed by and for healthcare leaders. In addition to learning from in-field professionals, you’ll go beyond theoretical concepts to practical application, preparing you for advanced leadership roles in clinical and non-clinical settings. With input and insight from industry leaders who work in the field of healthcare administration, our faculty are practitioners in the specific areas of the industry in which they teach, including ethics, finance, healthcare law, operations and strategy.




		How much will my MHA-HR master's degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		When can I start my master’s degree in healthcare administration with an HR specialization?
		


You can start now by applying for Franklin’s online MHA-HR degree program today. Classes begin in August (fall), January (spring) and May (summer).


See All >




Back to College Blog




Best Healthcare Master's Degrees: Which Is Right For Your Career?



MHA Specializations: What Options Exist?



MPA Specializations: Find Your Fit 



Is an MBA in Information Technology Worth It?



M.S. in IT Management vs. MBA: Which Program Should You Choose?






  Related Programs




Master of Business Administration
M.S. in Health Informatics
MBA-Healthcare 
M.S. in Nursing - Nurse Administrator




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog