URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/mba-programs/information-technology
MBA in Information Technology Online | 1-Year IT MBA | Franklin.edu



















MBA-IT Specialization
 

  36Credit Hours12Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              MBA Programs
                /  
                                              MBA-Information Technology
                          

  Advance your career in tech or business with an MBA in IT


Whether you’re a techie looking to build your managerial expertise or an entrepreneur searching for practical understanding of technology's role in strategy and growth, opportunities abound for high performers who excel in both business and technology. Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology combines essential business management principles with fundamentals in database management, information security and project management. The applied nature of the Franklin’s accredited program prepares you to make broad managerial decisions, as well as those related to technology and data operations.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  1 Year Online MBA
Finish your MBA in IT faster.



  Real-World Experts
Learn best practices from in-field professionals.



  IACBE Accredited
Our program follows best-practice standards for business education.



  No GRE/GMAT Required
Bypass expensive, time consuming tests and get started sooner.











  MBA-IT Program Overview





  Bolster your business savvy with an accredited MBA

Through seven 6-week courses in Franklin’s MBA program, which is accredited by the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE), you’ll learn to apply business theory to real-world scenarios. These required classes provide knowledge that’s essential for success as a leader or manager, including how to communicate with various stakeholders and improve your presentation skills. Through course assignments that emphasize real-world decision making, you’ll survey fundamental economic concepts, including supply and demand, as well as elasticity. You’ll gain a working knowledge of marketing theory and grasp effective marketing practices. You’ll develop a clear understanding of the financial and managerial accounting concepts that are routinely used in the management of daily operations. You’ll be able to describe major drivers of organizational effectiveness and acquire strategies to work with HR to attract, develop and retain employees. Lastly, you’ll merge your learnings in all disciplines to formulate a comprehensive strategy to create competitive advantage. Three additional 12-week courses in project management, information assurance and database management comprise the IT specialization that complements the core MBA curriculum. Apply database knowledge to solve business problems Learn data fundamentals via hands-on assignments that include designing a relational database system for a business scenario, optimizing database designs through normalization processes, and conducting data analysis using UML, SQL and MySQL for descriptive and diagnostic purposes. Additionally, you will explore data warehousing techniques through exercises that require you to analyze and demonstrate your understanding of how to integrate and transform data from diverse sources into a centralized repository. Gain a strategic understanding of project management Learn the science of project management by studying topics related to IT management including: strategic planning, assessment, organizing technology resources, prioritizing and selecting information technology, staffing and personnel management.You’ll be able to define project management, understand its importance, describe the purpose behind it and apply the concepts of project management to projects.Use real-world scenarios to master information security fundamentalsBecome well versed in information assurance concepts including risks and vulnerabilities, threat modeling, policy formation, controls and protection methods, encryption and authentication technologies, network security, cryptography, personnel and physical security issues, as well as ethical and legal issues.You’ll develop new skills by performing a comprehensive information security risk analysis based on a real-world case. You will configure a firewall, crack wireless passwords, perform SQL injection attacks against a vulnerable web application, create a hardening procedure for the Linux operating system and create a data backup using Windows Server Backup software.Learn from in-field experts in instructor-led online sessionsIf you’re looking for the flexibility of online learning alongside personalized attention from faculty, you’ll find it at Franklin. Online synchronous meetings provide the opportunity to ask questions, dig into assignments, work through problems, and discuss course topics with the instructor as a class. While the interactive sessions are regularly scheduled in advance, they are optional and are recorded for students to access at a later time if they choose to. In addition to accessible faculty, who are in-field practitioners, some courses include industry experts as guest speakers. Read more >











  International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE)
The Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a list of accredited programs please view our IACBE member status page. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. For more information about the International Accreditation Council for Business Education, please click here or visit www.iacbe.org.










  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 














Your MBA degree, your way with Franklin’s FlexFIT Online MBA
Earn your master’s in business without throwing your life, budget and schedule into chaos. Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA degree program was designed specifically to help you avoid the typical roadblocks that stop others from finishing by giving you the flexibility you need to stay on track.
 
Here’s how FlexFIT empowers you to complete your master’s in business in the way that fits your:
Finances: Schedule as many or as few classes to accommodate your budget.
Interests: Pick your path. Choose from a general track for a broad-based business perspective or follow your interests with a focused specialization.
Time: Start, study and finish at your pace because with FlexFIT, you decide how much time to devote to your coursework.







  Your Best Value MBA




Choose Franklin's accredited MBA and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget.  







Competitive Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Competitive tuition rates provide value and quality.







Partner? Pay Less. 
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$24,120
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




 Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








×








  MBA - IT Courses & Curriculum




				36 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




MGMT 707 - MBA Foundations (4)
More than ever before, the ability to understand and be understood is critical for success in the corporate world. Communication is no longer limited by the narrow definitions of the past. Achieving a business leadership position today means not only being adept at both oral and written communication, but also understanding communication from a strategic point-of-view and knowing how to effectively organize and present information to audiences of all sizes. In this course, you will develop and refine these capabilities. What you gain from this course will be of value throughout your MBA program, as well as in the workplace.


ECON 723 - Managerial Economics (4)
This course surveys the fundamental concepts and methods of economic analysis for managers. Real-world decision making is emphasized. Application of key economic concepts such as market demand, market supply, market equilibrium, marginal analysis, production, costs, revenue, profit, and market structure constitute the core material of the course.


MKTG 721 - Marketing Management (4)
In today's business world, success can often be attributed more to the genius of a company's marketing efforts than to the genius of its products or services. A clear understanding of the importance of marketing, as well as a grasp of effective marketing practices, is essential for anyone who wishes to achieve a position of leadership. You will gain a working knowledge of both marketing theory and the practical application of innovative marketing strategies. You will come to understand how product, price, place, and promotion contribute to the marketing mix as you explore research-based insights into consumer behavior. As your final course assignment, you will prepare and present a marketing plan of your own.


ACCT 729 - Financial & Managerial Accounting (4)
Effective leadership in today's complex and highly regulated business environment demands more than a working knowledge of basic accounting practices. Managers must fully grasp sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts and be able to apply them with ease in handling day-to-day responsibilities. Managers must also be well versed in the intricacies of corporate governance and asset protection. In this course, students will develop a clear understanding of these critical functions and issues. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting, including professional structure, the interrelationships of financial statements, and multiple forms of financial analysis. Additionally, the functional aspects of managerial accounting will be covered, including planning, decision making, and performance evaluation.


HRM 713 - Human Resource Management (4)
Organizations are composed of groups of people who work together to achieve defined outcomes. Experience has proven time and again that the key factor which differentiates successful companies from those who struggle to survive is people who make up the employee base. While the human resources function is given the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee-related issues and needs, individual managers have direct responsibility and accountability for motivating and leading employees to achieve sustained organizational success. The purpose of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work effectively with human resources to enhance the contributions of all employees to organizational effectiveness. Students will learn about the elements which drive business success, theories of motivation, and methods for creating a plan for maximizing the human capital of an organization.


MGMT 741 - Strategic Management (4)
One of the keys to success for today's organizations is their ability to develop, implement, and accurately evaluate effective business strategies. In this course, you will integrate the knowledge you have gained from your prior MBA courses to develop and sharpen your skills for formulating, deploying, and assessing an organization's strategy for achieving competitive advantage in the marketplace. This course will enable you to merge your knowledge of all of these individual disciplines into a comprehensive and meaningful whole.





				MBA or MBA with Specialization			



MBA:

MGMT 711 - Business Environment (4)
This course systematically explores the external environment in which businesses operate - legal and regulatory, macroeconomic, cultural, political, technological, and natural. Additionally, the course will examine the critical opportunities and threats that arise from an analysis of external business conditions. Students will apply scenario planning to a selected industry and synthesize trends in the external environment in the presence of risk and uncertainty.
OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.
FINA 737 - Corporate Finance (4)
Financial decisions made at the higher levels of a business organization can have far-reaching effects. Intended to achieve firm operating goals and create shareholder value, they must be made judiciously, with a thorough understanding of all the factors involved. In this course, you will learn to apply the analytical techniques required for developing effective and workable financial solutions at the executive level. You will gain an overall understanding of the workings of the U.S. financial system. In addition, you will study the concepts of financial risk, return, and the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure, and the evaluation of investment opportunities.


																					OR																			
Organizational Leadership Specialization:

MGMT 780 - Organizational Leadership Theories (4)
This course provides an overview of the historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs. Application and assessment of the individual leadership style will enable the student to develop their leadership voice.  This course will provide a construct that will enable the student to identify transferrable skills that align with the organization that they are serving in.  This course will challenge students to assess their own leadership strengths and weaknesses and produce an in-depth plan of action to develop and refine leadership competencies. Students will conduct substantive scholarly research to address and capture relevant and cutting-edge leadership theoretical work for application in course assignments.
MGMT 785 - Change Management for Organizational Leaders (4)
This course focuses on research and evaluation of the key theoretical concepts and practices central to the leading of organizational change initiatives. Students will evaluate real-world situations in a manner that supports the ability to initiate, implement and sustain major change. The management of change is a dynamic process. This course focuses on understanding how to plan and implement change in various organizations and other settings.

 
PSYC 603 - Managerial Psychology (4)
This course will explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders. Topics include: follower influences, nature vs. nurture in the development of leaders, relationship of personality to leadership style, behavioral decision- making biases, tactical, operational, and strategic decision-making , group think, and scenario planning.


																					OR																			
Finance Specialization:

FINA 737 - Corporate Finance (4)
Financial decisions made at the higher levels of a business organization can have far-reaching effects. Intended to achieve firm operating goals and create shareholder value, they must be made judiciously, with a thorough understanding of all the factors involved. In this course, you will learn to apply the analytical techniques required for developing effective and workable financial solutions at the executive level. You will gain an overall understanding of the workings of the U.S. financial system. In addition, you will study the concepts of financial risk, return, and the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure, and the evaluation of investment opportunities.
FINA 750 - Advanced Investment (4)
This course provides students with advanced knowledge of the capital markets, financial institutions, financial products, and analytical tools and skills needed for investments portfolio management.  The objective is to provide students with a solid foundation of advanced concepts, tools, and techniques for making informed decisions in the highly dynamic investment environment.  Students will utilize computer software, simulations, and internet tools to understand the viewpoint of professional investors more fully. The course will adopt an application-oriented approach so that students will be able to explain their financial decision under conditions of uncertainty.  The course will provide students with a framework that will be useful in business settings where such analyses are routinely made.
FINA 773 - Global Finance (4)
No longer are only mammoth corporations concerned with the complexities and nuances of multinational financial operations. Today the leaders of companies of even moderate size often must have at least a fundamental knowledge of the global financial environment. In this course, you will be introduced to the workings of international finance as it relates to business operations. You will gain an understanding of such international macroeconomic topics as the balance of payments and models of exchange rate determination, while at the same time focusing on institutional issues such as the choice of exchange rate regime and growth of offshore currency markets. You will examine business and investor decisions involving exchange rate risk management, cross-border investment strategies, and participation in international money and capital markets.


																					OR																			
Business Analytics Specialization:

MATH 601 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course provides an introductory overview of methods, concepts, and current practices in the growing field of statistics and data analytics. Topics to be covered include data collection, data analysis and visualization as well as probability, statistical inference and regression methods for informed decision-making. Students will explore these topics with current statistical software. Some emphasis will also be given to ethical principles of data analytics.
DATA 605 - Data Visualization & Reporting (4)
This course focuses on collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to create visualizations, dashboards, and stories that can be used to communicate critical business insights. Students will learn how to structure and streamline data analysis projects and highlight their implications efficiently using the most popular visualization tools used by businesses today.
DATA 630 - Applied Database Management (4)
This course teaches data management from an applied perspective. The topics include fundamentals of database management systems, structured query language (SQL) for data analytics,  relational database design, and data warehousing.


																					OR																			
Operational Excellence Specialization:

GRAD 770 - Lean Six Sigma (4)
The purpose of this course is to train individuals in Lean Six Sigma skills and strategies to improve processes and provide safe, effective care environments. The learner will demonstrate the practical application of tools utilized with Lean Six Sigma methodologies. Students will have the opportunity to apply the knowledge learned during this course concurrently with a case study designed specifically to use Six Sigma methodologies. Students will develop a Lean Six Sigma project plan that can serve as the foundation for completing a major project for Lean Six Sigma certification following the completion of the course. Interested students would need to apply for Lean Six Sigma certification and complete the major project with Franklin University's Center for Professional Training & Development.
OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.
OSCM 780 - Introduction to Operations Excellence (4)
Operational excellence can provide an important competitive advantage for firms in today?s marketplace.  This course presents the concepts in quality.  It builds upon the responses of six sigma and lean principles.  This course also blends qualitative and quantitative information so that organizations can capitalize on opportunities and data driven management.


																					OR																			
Business Psychology Specialization:

PSYC 601 - Introduction to Business Psychology (4)
A brief history and overview of the fields of business and psychology as well as a discussion of the issues and opportunities related to their integration. Topics include brain organization and dominance, neuroethics, neurolinguistic programming, multiminds, mindmapping and the application of positive psychology to work settings. Includes the application of recent discoveries in cognitive psychology and neuroscience to resolve contemporary issues in the workplace. 
PSYC 602 - Individual & Organizational Intelligence (4)
This course focuses on the application of systems theory, social psychology concepts, organizational lifecycles, and biological principles to the understanding of business operations. Includes a review of basic business principles, multiple intelligences, organizational intelligence, organizational culture, emotional intelligence, biomimicry and organizational DNA. 
PSYC 607 - Psychology of Creativity, Innovation And Change (4)
This course provides a study of the relationship between creativity, innovation and change from a psychological perspective. Areas of interest include: social-technical change waves, change facilitation, unintended consequences, Appreciative Inquiry, creativity enhancement, and diffusion of innovation. 


																					OR																			
Marketing Specialization:

MCM 711 - Digital Marketing Strategies (4)
The integration of existing and emerging technology with marketing and communication strategies has become a major marketing and societal force. Topics explored in this course will range from social media strategies to the metrics used to analyze the impact of integrated digital marketing campaigns.
MCM 713 - Marketing Communication Essentials (4)
The ability to develop communication strategies has never been more important for business leaders than in today's complex digital marketing environment. In this course, you will develop a broad knowledge of the fundamentals of effective marketing communication planning and implementation.
MCM 733 - Marketing Communication Planning (4)
In this course, students will demonstrate their marketing competencies by developing marketing strategies and tactics for a live client, including market analysis, target marketing, branding, and message development.


																					OR																			
Human Resources Specialization:

HRM 702 - Employee Rights, Responsibilities, Discp (4)
The primary purpose of this course is to introduce the principle theories and practices in the area of employment and workplace law. Topics include the federal and state laws associated with hiring, firing and discipline, medical leave (including FMLA, ADA and worker's compensation), discrimination, harassment, immigration, labor law, unemployment compensation, workplace privacy. Additional topics may include workplace investigations, workplace violence and employment-related legal processes, including EEOC Charges and lawsuits.
HRM 706 - Organizational Development/Intervention (4)
This course addresses the need for planned change focused on an organization's ability to compete strategically. The framework of consultation as helping organizations reach a level of optimum performance will be applied. Topics addressed include individual, team, and organization-wide interventions that can raise productivity/quality, improve competitiveness, increase skills, morale, and commitment.
HRM 708 - Strategic Human Resource Planning (4)
The course will introduce students to the field of strategic human resource management (SHRM). Current topics in SHRM that have resulted from environmental and organizational challenges, e.g., technology, globalization, legislation, restructuring, work/life balance, changing labor markets, are discussed Emphasis will be placed on problem solving issues, policies, and practices affecting HR specialists, practitioners, and managers.


																					OR																			
Information Technology Specialization:

ITEC 640 - Project Management (4)
This course examines various issues related to the management of information systems. Topics include: strategic planning, organizing the technology resources, means of prioritizing and selecting information technology, staffing, personnel management, and assessment.
DATA 630 - Applied Database Management (4)
This course teaches data management from an applied perspective. The topics include fundamentals of database management systems, structured query language (SQL) for data analytics,  relational database design, and data warehousing.
CYSC 610 - Information Assurance (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of security in the enterprise environment. Included are coverage of risks and vulnerabilities, threat modeling, policy formation, controls and protection methods, encryption and authentication technologies, network security, cryptography, personnel and physical security issues, as well as ethical and legal issues. This foundational course serves as an introduction to many of the subsequent topics discussed in depth in later security courses. Note, this course has proctored exam(s). This exam requires additional technology, if student uses online proctoring.














Free Master's ToolkitEliminate guesswork by comparing schools and calculate the ROI of a master’s degree.Download Now >







Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Organizational Psychology



MBA Core Mastery



MBA Foundations



MBA Focus: Marketing



MBA Focus: Human Resources





Learn More







  MBA - IT Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Business Administration students must earn at least 32 of the 44 required credits at Franklin University – in any modality (on-site, hybrid or online).Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
None




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the Master of Business Administration matrix.




Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Faris Alami
International Strategic Management
Founder + CEO


Laurie Allen
Abbott Nutrition
Project Portfolio Manager


Cheralee Calhoun
Nationwide Insurance
Accounting Consultant


Jeffrey Ferezan
Franklin University
Adj. Faculty + Doctoral Fac. Adv.


Thomas Garrison
Truist
Legal Team


Michelle Leigh
Lendersservicers Compliance Group
Executive Director


Tony Schradar
Anomaly and Data Integrity
Associate Director


Randall Strutz
Quality Distribution Inc.
President of Quality Carriers


John Torpey
American Electric Power
Retired








Employment Outlook





11%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Business & Leadership are expected to increase by 11%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Computer and Information Systems Managers
$169,520
18,129
20%




Computer and Information Systems Managers
									Median Salary: $169,520

									Job Postings: 18,129

									Projected Growth: 20%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionComputer and Information Systems Managers plan, direct, or coordinate activities in such fields as electronic data processing, information systems, systems analysis, and computer programming. Excludes Computer Occupations (15-1211 through 15-1299).Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsIT Directors4,94727%Directors of Information Technology3,92922%Chief Information Officers1,5028%Chief Technology Officers1,2227%Chief Information Security Officers1,1877%Directors of IT Infrastructure5523%Digital Transformation Directors5673%Directors of IT Operations5213%Vice Presidents of Software Engineering6183%IT Associate Directors5573%Directors of IT Security3102%Directors of Infrastructure3222%Directors of Technology Solutions3612%Directors of IT Infrastructure and Operations2411%Directors of Technology4082%Directors of Network Development1661%Deputy Chief Information Officers1871%Chief Data Officers2171%ITSM Managers1291%Infrastructure Managers1861%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsComputer Science8,14533%Project Management7,45030%Information Systems4,06616%Cyber Security3,45314%Auditing3,32313%Agile Methodology3,22613%IT Infrastructure3,11813%IT Service Management2,90512%Finance2,81911%Business Process2,62911%Information Technology Operations2,52910%Change Management2,50510%Software Development2,36210%Microsoft Azure2,3269%Technology Solutions2,3019%Automation2,2959%Continuous Improvement Process2,2949%Risk Management2,1869%Information Technology Infrastructure Library2,1489%Technical Support2,1439%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services21%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Software Publishers5%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services4%Insurance Carriers3%Other53% 
Database Administrators
$101,504
123,181
12%




Database Administrators
									Median Salary: $101,504

									Job Postings: 123,181

									Projected Growth: 12%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionDatabase Administrators administer, test, and implement computer databases, applying knowledge of database management systems. Coordinate changes to computer databases. Identify, investigate, and resolve database performance issues, database capacity, and database scalability. May plan, coordinate, and implement security measures to safeguard computer databases. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsData Engineers42,92435%Database Administrators17,81515%Salesforce Administrators8,0217%Oracle Database Administrators6,8486%Data Center Technicians8,5277%ETL Developers4,1953%SQL Developers4,1693%Lead Data Engineers4,2534%SQL Database Administrators4,1333%Database Engineers3,4973%Big Data Engineers2,4472%Oracle PL/SQL Developers2,1712%Informatica Developers1,9232%Database Analysts2,1962%Azure Engineers1,9202%PL/SQL Developers1,4291%Data Center Engineers1,8642%Principal Engineers1,8602%ETL Informatica Developers1,2711%SQL Server Database Administrators1,7181%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsSQL (Programming Language)60,34351%Extract Transform Load (ETL)37,06931%Data Engineering36,95331%Computer Science36,02930%Python (Programming Language)35,35530%Data Warehousing25,74722%Amazon Web Services25,62022%Database Administration24,35320%Agile Methodology22,95919%Data Modeling22,54319%Microsoft Azure20,15017%Automation18,96016%Data Analysis18,74516%Data Pipelines17,35315%Scripting16,42914%Scalability15,45013%Java (Programming Language)14,30512%Data Quality14,28512%Performance Tuning14,16512%Apache Spark13,82612%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services14%Management of Companies and Enterprises8%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals4%Insurance Carriers4%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals4%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Other62% 
General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 
Network and Computer Systems Administrators
$95,347
102,148
8%




Network and Computer Systems Administrators
									Median Salary: $95,347

									Job Postings: 102,148

									Projected Growth: 8%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators install, configure, and maintain an organization’s local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), data communications network, operating systems, and physical and virtual servers. Perform system monitoring and verify the integrity and availability of hardware, network, and server resources and systems. Review system and application logs and verify completion of scheduled jobs, including system backups. Analyze network and server resource consumption and control user access. Install and upgrade software and maintain software licenses. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsSystems Administrators39,81139%Network Administrators13,74014%Linux System Administrators7,9068%Windows Administrators5,5305%Linux Administrators3,9144%IT Systems Administrators4,2764%Linux Engineers3,1153%Sharepoint Administrators3,1073%IT Administrators3,2683%Linux Systems Engineers2,2382%Windows Server System Administrators2,2662%Network Systems Administrators2,4732%Computer Operators2,1212%Application Administrators1,5172%Administrators1,4711%Servicenow Administrators9091%Server Administrators1,3201%Cloud Systems Administrators1,0381%Netsuite Administrators1,0291%Unix Administrators1,0991%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperating Systems29,29232%Linux28,68231%System Administration23,75026%Computer Science23,50625%Active Directory21,48723%Scripting19,01721%Windows Servers17,23619%Automation16,48718%Firewall13,81515%Network Administration12,87914%Windows PowerShell12,14513%Microsoft Azure11,98013%Technical Support11,71013%Python (Programming Language)11,59613%Backup Devices11,58712%Network Routing11,22312%Unix10,39011%Network Switches10,26011%SQL (Programming Language)9,78511%Local Area Networks9,73710%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services16%Management of Companies and Enterprises7%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)4%Education and Hospitals (State Government)4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services3%Other61% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  MBA - IT Knowledge and Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Executive Leadership & Business Strategy

			



Clearly articulate the organization’s mission, vision and values, and develop strategic plans for organization-wide implementation
Develop, communicate and implement priorities, goals and objectives in accordance with the strategic plans
Coordinate efforts across business lines and functions, harnessing organizational synergies and ensuring strategic alignment
Create and monitor strategies to ensure long-term financial viability
Identify key metrics and develop reporting systems to measure performance across functional units, identifying growth and efficiency opportunities
Develop organizational core competencies, positioning organizations to create competitive advantages in evolving industries
Oversee product-line strategies, generating prioritized, actionable insights from consumer and industry research
Apply effective change management strategies to help leadership, employees and other stakeholders successfully embrace organizational changes and improve performance
	 







			
  Marketing Management

			



Review all elements of the marketing mix, including product formulation, price, packaging and promotion to build brand equity and optimize sales, market share and profitability
Implement multi-year brand-category growth strategies, leveraging product development and marketing innovations
Develop and execute annual marketing plans to achieve market share, volume and profit objectives
Create unique and ownable market positions relative to competitors with clear points of differentiation
Leverage the full marketing mix, executing on compelling tactics that ingrain brand position and key differentiators into the minds of target audiences
Determine the most effective media mix across traditional and digital channels, balancing direct response initiatives with building long-term brand equity
Closely monitor and analyze sales volumes, market share trends and competitive activity
Assure effectiveness of marketing programs by completing post-promotion analysis of data, comparing results to established objectives
Collaborate with internal teams to drive success via customer engagement, competitive positioning, pricing and promotional activities
Promote strategic priorities and drive brand reputation through development and management of leadership events and speaking opportunities
	 







			
  Financial & Managerial Accounting

			



Maintain accounting standards, ensuring compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
Prepare consolidated financial statements, including balance sheets, income statements and statements of cash flow
Prepare account reconciliation
Consolidate and submit financial transaction reports
Analyze financial statements
Collaborate with business development in tracking and reporting sales efforts
Determine how changes in business and organizational structure impact reporting and operating results
Analyze transactions to identify issues, determine root causes of variances, and recommend appropriate corrective action
Ensure integrity of financial data for decision support and cost accounting systems, maintaining cost standards
Provide costing reports and make recommendations to support change in resource allocations, work methods and materials
Recommend and implement process, systems and reporting improvements to provide more visibility into financial results
Develop and execute cost-effective actions and expense-saving initiatives in support of financial objectives
Use accounting principles and practices to inform and recommend process improvement changes







			
  Human Resource Management

			



Create top-talent management development and succession planning processes
Attract, recruit and inspire A-list employees who can help drive organizational success
Identify key domestic and international forces impacting the current and future workforce
Develop, coach and train high performance employees and managers to attain high levels of responsibility and performance
Design and implement organizational change strategies to enhance employee motivation and organizational efficiency
Build highly effective teams that work together to solve problems and innovate 







			
  Information Technology - Project Management 

			



Initiate, plan, execute and close multiple complex IT projects
Understand current and future business goals and ongoing IT issues to ensure business success
Integrate information technologies for optimal effectiveness
Delegate project tasks based on individual strengths, skill sets and experience levels
Ability to manage and direct the activities of multi-disciplinary teams consisting of IT technical personnel, functional personnel, and interfaces with internal and external customers, including management and stakeholders
Track project performance to analyze the successful completion of short- and long-term goals
Meet budgetary objectives and make adjustments to project constraints based on financial analysis
Implement risk mitigation strategies and contingency plans to ensure high-quality and on-time delivery of projects
Knowledge and understanding of project management best practices and processes









  MBA with a Specialization in IT or M.S. in Information Technology




If you’re interested in advancing your career, Franklin has several great options. The best fit for you depends on your interests and goals. Compare programs and select your perfect match.









tab_icon/color/programs
Created with Sketch.













tab_icon/white/programs
Created with Sketch.












								MBA Information Technology Specialization
			





tab_icon/color/completion
Created with Sketch.












tab_icon/white/completion
Created with Sketch.











								M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management Focus
			



Focus:Strengthen business acumen while gaining a practical understanding of data, information and IT project management.Skills:Build business decision-making skills including those related to tech enhancement or operation.Careers:Use your MBA-IT in leadership roles to improve tech effectiveness and efficiency.How many courses are in the program? Nine (Six 6-week courses and three 12-week courses)How quickly can I complete the program?12 months


Focus:
Deepen IT management and strategy expertise while building familiarity with managerial-level finance and accounting.
Skills:
Expand IT knowledge, analyze the business environment and apply aspects of managerial accounting.
Careers:
Use your M.S. in IT to manage and lead the IT development process.
How many courses are in the program?
Nine (Six 12-week courses and three 6-week courses)
How quickly can I complete the program?
16 months








  MBA - IT Frequently Asked Questions 






		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology is a theory-to-practice master’s-level program that combines foundational knowledge of business and leadership alongside skills in IT-project management, information security and data management. 




		What can you do with an MBA in IT?
		


With an MBA in IT, you’ll gain in-demand business and management skills, practical understanding of database management, information security fundamentals, and a strategic view of project management that will qualify you to lead and work in a variety of roles including software development manager, IT infrastructure project manager and help desk manager.




		Why get an MBA in Information Technology online?
		


With an MBA in Information Technology online, you'll build your managerial expertise and practical understanding of technology's role in strategy and growth. An MBA, like Franklin’s accredited program, is a degree universally recognized for advanced business knowledge, while the specialization in IT provides applied knowledge in database management, information security and IT-project management. 




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Information Technology is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA IT?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in IT cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA in IT? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA in IT in as few as 12 months.




		Will my online information technology MBA be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts. 




		Will my information technology be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas. 


See All >




Back to College Blog




Best MBA in Operations: What Program is Right for You?



What Salary Can You Earn with an MBA in Marketing? 



Is an MBA in Human Resources Worth It?



What Is an MBA in Finance?



What Can You Do With an MBA in Finance?










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog