URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/mba-programs/mba-healthcare
Online Healthcare MBA | MBA For Healthcare Professionals



















MBA-Healthcare 
 

  36Credit Hours21Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              MBA Programs
                /  
                                              MBA-Healthcare
                          

  Respond to rapid and continuous change with an MBA for healthcare professionals


Policy changes, mergers and acquisitions, and technological advancements within the healthcare industry necessitate innovative approaches to operations, financial management and patient care outcomes. Successful navigation of uncharted territories has perpetuated a need for highly skilled practitioners with a comprehensive view of the industry landscape. The MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare emphasizes essential business skills within a healthcare context to ensure healthcare products and services are delivered effectively and efficiently. 


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Finish in 21 Months
Maximize the benefit of flexible 12-week courses.
 



  100% Online Coursework
Balance earning your degree with other work-life commitments.



  No GRE/GMAT Required
Bypass expensive, time consuming tests and get started sooner.



  Chart Your Path
No cohorts or pre-requisites let you plot your course schedule.



  Achieve Balance
Earn your degree by taking one class at a time. 



  Make Connections
Network with MDs and healthcare administrators. 



  Get an Edge
Identify business opportunities through a healthcare lens.











  MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare Degree Overview





  Take a business-focused approach to emerging healthcare trends, policies and procedures 

A popular choice for busy medical school students and ambitious professionals from leading healthcare organizations, Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare (MBA-Healthcare) incorporates contemporary healthcare industry-related topics like telehealth (digital health) and artificial intelligence into course assignments to help you acquire foundational business knowledge to guide day-to-day decision making from a healthcare administration perspective.  The MBA-Healthcare provides a solid foundation in leadership, accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations and economics that will enable you to apply your existing health-related skills at a higher level. The degree is a great fit whether you are an aspiring physician with the goal of setting up your own healthcare practice, or you are currently working in a clinical healthcare setting or an ancillary industry such medical testing/research, pharmaceuticals, medical supply logistics, managed care or insurance. Master business concepts with hands-on coursework  Throughout the nine-course program you’ll explore foundational areas of business through the healthcare lens to become a well-rounded professional with the skills and insight necessary to address the most-pressing issues facing the industry. Hands-on coursework will further develop your quantitative skills for practical application. Managerial economics focuses on analysis of datasets to strengthen your ability to determine the significance of variable factors. Managerial accounting and finance courses familiarize you with common financial documents like income statements, cash flow statements, annual reports and balance sheets.  You’ll also utilize journal articles to investigate different forecasting methods, more advanced quantitative methods and other tools used for management so that you will be able to accurately assess the capital adequacy, solvency issues and cash flow requirements for a healthcare operation.CapSim, simulation software integrated into the business strategy course, provides an opportunity to gain hands on experience in running a company as a member of a senior management team. As part of a team, you’ll be required to evaluate situations and make decisions, evaluate outcomes and compete with other management teams for resources, opportunities and markets. This exercise illustrates how a firm’s production, marketing, R&D and financial operations interact. You’ll walk away with an understanding of how of key decisions impact business performance within a competitive market. Balance your Healthcare MBA with your life   Earn your Healthcare MBA by completing nine 12-week classes in as few as 21 months by taking two classes per term. Unlike cohort-based programs that lock you in to a pre-determined schedule, you can select courses in any order other than the introductory course and the capstone, which must be taken last. In addition, the introductory course is offered every term, so you can start the program at the best time for you.To accommodate the needs of most students, who work or attend medical school full time, our convenient staggered course schedule gives you the freedom to complete the 100% online program at your own pace by taking one or two courses each term. If you desire to complete the program in less than 21 months, there are also 6-week equivalents of every class that enable you to accelerate your completion time.  Learn and thrive in a community of learners who share your goalsAt Franklin, you’ll not only get the essential business tools necessary to improve the delivery of healthcare products and services, you’ll benefit from a learning community designed with you in mind.  Chaired by an MD-MBA who also teaches full time in the program, the online MBA Healthcare program is structured to provide a 360-degree learning environment that keeps you engaged. Case studies, simulations, discussion boards and input from faculty, as well as the other students in your online classroom, add depth to the course material. Individualized attention from faculty members, who are in-field practitioners, will drive you to succeed and provide you with a competitive advantage. Interaction with other students in the program, many of whom are currently attending medical school or working in the healthcare industry, increase your knowledge and extend your professional network. Moreover, you are encouraged to take advantage of student membership options in professional associations such as the American College of Healthcare Executives or the Healthcare Financial Management Association. These organizations provide opportunities for continuing education, professional networking and career advancement in healthcare administration. Read more >



Kimberly K.
MBA Healthcare '23
"The Franklin MBA Healthcare program has allowed me to work and connect with professors and students who have the same passion for the industry as myself; they have made it a seamless, also enjoyable, process the entire time. I am honored to call myself a Franklin alumna. " 







  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 









  Your Best Value MBA-Healthcare




Choose Franklin's MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget. 







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Get ahead without going broke. 







Finish at Your Pace
21 Months to Complete




Balance your education with your life.







Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.







$24,120
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×








  Healthcare MBA Courses & Curriculum




				36 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




ECON 723 - Managerial Economics (4)
This course surveys the fundamental concepts and methods of economic analysis for managers. Real-world decision making is emphasized. Application of key economic concepts such as market demand, market supply, market equilibrium, marginal analysis, production, costs, revenue, profit, and market structure constitute the core material of the course.


FINA 737 - Corporate Finance (4)
Financial decisions made at the higher levels of a business organization can have far-reaching effects. Intended to achieve firm operating goals and create shareholder value, they must be made judiciously, with a thorough understanding of all the factors involved. In this course, you will learn to apply the analytical techniques required for developing effective and workable financial solutions at the executive level. You will gain an overall understanding of the workings of the U.S. financial system. In addition, you will study the concepts of financial risk, return, and the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure, and the evaluation of investment opportunities.


HRM 713 - Human Resource Management (4)
Organizations are composed of groups of people who work together to achieve defined outcomes. Experience has proven time and again that the key factor which differentiates successful companies from those who struggle to survive is people who make up the employee base. While the human resources function is given the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee-related issues and needs, individual managers have direct responsibility and accountability for motivating and leading employees to achieve sustained organizational success. The purpose of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work effectively with human resources to enhance the contributions of all employees to organizational effectiveness. Students will learn about the elements which drive business success, theories of motivation, and methods for creating a plan for maximizing the human capital of an organization.


MKTG 721 - Marketing Management (4)
In today's business world, success can often be attributed more to the genius of a company's marketing efforts than to the genius of its products or services. A clear understanding of the importance of marketing, as well as a grasp of effective marketing practices, is essential for anyone who wishes to achieve a position of leadership. You will gain a working knowledge of both marketing theory and the practical application of innovative marketing strategies. You will come to understand how product, price, place, and promotion contribute to the marketing mix as you explore research-based insights into consumer behavior. As your final course assignment, you will prepare and present a marketing plan of your own.


OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.


MGMT 741 - Strategic Management (4)
One of the keys to success for today's organizations is their ability to develop, implement, and accurately evaluate effective business strategies. In this course, you will integrate the knowledge you have gained from your prior MBA courses to develop and sharpen your skills for formulating, deploying, and assessing an organization's strategy for achieving competitive advantage in the marketplace. This course will enable you to merge your knowledge of all of these individual disciplines into a comprehensive and meaningful whole.





				Specialization			



Healthcare Specialization:

MHC 707 - MBA Essentials Health Care (4)
This course prepares and orients students for the MBA with Healthcare Specialization Program. The Program had eliminated the course prerequisites in business and uses this course to provide the basics of economics, finance, accounting, in addition to the general business essentials to be a successful student in the program. The course also provides the academic expectations for students and guidance for professional conduct.
HCM 733 - Finance and Managerial Accounting in Healthcare Organizations (4)
The purpose of this course is to provide students with the fundamental concepts and calculations associated with financial accounting and managerial accounting within a healthcare organization. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting with a primary focus on financial statements and the uses of the information in these statements. Students will also study the functional aspects of managerial accounting to include cost behavior, cost allocation, pricing, planning, budgeting, profit analysis, and performance evaluation. Application of these concepts will include analysis of case studies.
HCM 735 - Healthcare Delivery Systems (4)
The course provides an extensive overview of leadership in the U.S. health services system. The focus of the course will be on the role health services leadership plays in the delivery of healthcare services, to include managing with professionals, financial management, services utilization, and other aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. The student will explore the key theoretical and practical elements of leadership as well as current issues clarifying how the U.S. health services system is organized, managed, and financed.











Microcredentials Align with Job Essentials




        In today's dynamic work environments, adaptive professionals thrive. A microcredential - either as a stand-alone course or integrated into your degree program - is a short, skill-specific recognition that enables you to demonstrate your competency in a distinct area. Like Franklin's degree programs, microcredentials are aligned with market and industry demand to ensure what you learn can be put to use right away. Microcredentials are easily shared via digital badges and can be stacked to create a unique portfolio of in-demand skills.
      





Healthcare Operations & Leadership



Healthcare Finance Essentials



Healthcare Economics & Marketing





Learn More







  MBA-Healthcare Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the Master of Business Administration - Healthcare matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.
Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.
Complete the residency requirement:
	
MBA-Healthcare students must earn at least 24 of the 36 required credits at Franklin University.


Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;
Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.

Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
None




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.






Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Bruce Hagen
Ohio Health Marion
Retired


Mark Holroyd
Medspeed, LLC
Regional VP


Jessica Neiberg
Ohio Department of Medicaid
Mgr. of Network Mgmt. + Ops.


Abraham Parail, MD
Grant Medical Center
Dir. Card. Cath. Lab + Intervention


Lana Uhrig
Emory University
Vice President of Cancer Nursing


Bruce Vanderhoff
Ohio Department of Health
Director


Theodore Washienko
Bon Secour Health System
Retired


Jangus Whitner
Apexus LLC
Mgr, 340B Education + Compliance








Employment Outlook





12%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Healthcare are expected to increase by 12%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Medical and Health Services Managers
$110,677
353,327
30%




Medical and Health Services Managers
									Median Salary: $110,677

									Job Postings: 353,327

									Projected Growth: 30%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionMedical and Health Services Managers plan, direct, or coordinate medical and health services in hospitals, clinics, managed care organizations, public health agencies, or similar organizations.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsDirectors of Nursing74,53221%Patient Care Coordinators44,56713%Medical Directors25,4997%Clinical Supervisors24,1877%Directors of Rehabilitation31,4619%Patient Services Coordinators14,9524%Care Coordinators11,8753%Patient Coordinators12,0253%Referral Coordinators10,5383%Laboratory Managers12,5624%Clinical Directors18,5855%Clinical Managers12,9314%Referral Specialists6,5512%Clinic Managers7,4562%Nursing Home Administrators10,6353%Directors of Nursing/Registered Nurses8,4462%Clinical Coordinators6,3812%Patient Care Managers7,3542%Laboratory Supervisors6,2982%Directors of Behavioral Health6,4922%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNursing96,01221%Care Coordination61,08813%Medical Records46,05110%Billing39,9069%Auditing36,7158%Electronic Medical Record33,8407%Marketing33,8247%Social Work31,7077%Case Management31,4397%Workflow Management30,9607%Quality Improvement29,8986%Project Management27,8916%Behavioral Health27,3426%Mental Health26,6246%Home Health Care26,1906%Rehabilitation25,7476%Medical Terminology25,4096%Clinical Experience24,4605%Healthcare Industry Knowledge24,0755%Medicare23,6115%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryGeneral Medical and Surgical Hospitals23%Offices of Physicians13%Outpatient Care Centers7%Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)6%Home Health Care Services5%Offices of Other Health Practitioners4%Other42% 
General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.




  Find the Healthcare Program That Fits Your Goals




If you’re interested in advancing your healthcare career, Franklin has several great options. The best fit for you depends on your interests and goals. Compare programs and identify your perfect match.









icon_tiles/it-computer_cross-color
Created with Sketch.















icon_tiles/it-computer_cross-white
Created with Sketch.














								MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare
			





icon_tiles/it-clipboard_cross-color
Created with Sketch.














icon_tiles/it-clipboard_cross-white
Created with Sketch.













								Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA)     
			





icon_tiles/it-building_columns-color
Created with Sketch.





















icon_tiles/it-building_columns-white
Created with Sketch.




















								MPA Healthcare
			



Focus: Gain business principles with a focus on healthcare that will enable you to ensure that healthcare products and services are delivered effectively and efficiently. Skills: Build qualitative skills to guide decisions related to the daily management of operations, supply chain and finance. Careers: Use your MBA-Healthcare to successfully launch your own practice or manage administrative functions in a clinical healthcare setting or an ancillary industry.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 12-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?21 months


Focus: Grow your leadership and management skills in healthcare administration in order to build high performing teams and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of programs and services.  Skills: Deepen your understanding of health policy, risk management, as well as ever-changing legal, ethical and compliance issues. Careers: Use your MHA to ensure public and private healthcare systems, hospitals and government/nonprofit organization are effectively serving individuals and communities.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months


Focus: Build expertise in public service leadership alongside foundational knowledge of healthcare administration. Skills:Acquire interdisciplinary decision-making and communication skills alongside specialized  knowledge in healthcare policies, operations and analytics. Careers: Leverage an MPA-Healthcare to impact public policy and regulations to improve healthcare service and delivery. How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months








  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.














  Healthcare MBA Degree Frequently Asked Questions






		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare emphasizes essential business skills in leadership, accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations and economics within a healthcare context to ensure healthcare products and services are delivered effectively and efficiently. 




		What can you do with MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


An MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare provides the business tools that enable you to apply your existing health-related skills at a higher level, whether you are an aspiring physician with the goal of setting up your own healthcare practice, or you are currently working in a clinical healthcare setting or an ancillary industry such as medical testing/research, pharmaceuticals, medical supply logistics, managed care or insurance. 




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


An MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare gives you a competitive edge by adding business tools to your existing healthcare knowledge. Your MBA-Healthcare equips you to improve the delivery of healthcare products and services. As a student in the program, you’ll also grow your professional network to include other medical doctors and healthcare administrators.  
Physicians who complete the program gain the business skills necessary to run a successful practice. All graduates gain a better understanding of how the healthcare delivery system contributes to improved patient care. 




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree unique?
		


Providing the ultimate flexibility to current students who either work or attend medical school, full time, the MBA-Healthcare program does not run on a cohort model.  
Case studies, simulations, discussion boards and input from faculty, as well as the other students in your online classroom add depth to the course material. Given the dynamic nature of the healthcare industry, courses are regularly redesigned to align with current trends and emerging technology. 
The program provides a 360-degree learning environment that keeps you engaged. Individualized attention from faculty members, who are in-field practitioners, will drive you to succeed and provide you with a competitive advantage. Interaction with other students in the program, many of whom are currently attending medical school or working in the healthcare industry, increase your knowledge and extend your professional network.   




		How long does it take to get MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


Franklin's MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare can be completed in 21 months, 100 percent online by taking two 12-week classes per 12-week term. 




		When can I start an MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare has three start dates per year - fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Healthcare degree cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost - especially once you've factored in transfer credit. With our tuition guarantee, you can lock-in your tuition rate from your first term through graduation. Ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs. Visit MyTransfer Credit to see how transfer credits could help you save time and money.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Best MBA in Operations: What Program is Right for You?



What Salary Can You Earn with an MBA in Marketing? 



Is an MBA in Human Resources Worth It?



What Is an MBA in Finance?



What Can You Do With an MBA in Finance?






  Related Programs




M.S. in Health Informatics
Healthcare Administration - General




Any Program TypeAccountingComputer ScienceCriminal Justice & Public SafetyCybersecurityData & AnalyticsHuman ResourcesOperations & Project ManagementPsychologyBusiness & LeadershipEducationFinanceHealthcareMarketing & CommunicationsNursingPublic & Social SciencesInformation TechnologyAny Degree TypeAssociate DegreeUndergraduate CertificateBachelor's DegreeMaster's DegreeGraduate CertificateDoctoral DegreePost-Graduate CertificatePost BaccalaureateFind Programs









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog