URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters-degrees/mba-programs/mba-stem
STEM Online MBA Program | 1-Year MBA Degree | Franklin.edu



















MBA - STEM
 

  44Credit Hours18Month CompletionClass TypeFace-to-face, Online courseworkSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025
																																			Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
																																			May 19, 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025
																																			Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026
																																			Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
																																			May 18, 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026
																																			Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationRequest InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              MBA Programs
                /  
                                              MBA-STEM
                          

   Lead with confidence amid uncertainty with a STEM MBA


In today’s constantly evolving world, leaders who use data to inform their decisions achieve better results. Master the tools to transform complex data into powerful insights that drive business success with Franklin’s 18-month MBA-STEM. Franklin’s STEM-designated MBA bridges the gap between theory and practice while equipping you with skills to integrate data analysis with business best practices. Earn your degree 100% online or through a combination of on campus and online courses.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  Master Industry Tools
Build skills in R, SQL, Tableau and Python.



  Real-World Experts
Learn best practices from in-field professionals.



  Embedded Certificate
Earn a Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics alongside the STEM MBA.



  No GRE/GMAT Required
Bypass expensive, time consuming tests and get started sooner.



  Balance Learning + Life
Finish in 18 months.











  MBA-STEM Program Overview





   Boost your competitive advantage by combining business basics with in-demand analytics skills

Six 6-week major area courses provide you with essential business knowledge in economics, marketing management, financial and managerial accounting, human resource management and strategic management. Five additional courses focused on leading-edge data tools and techniques build your skills in analytics, data visualization and reporting, Big Data and data mining, database management and business analytics strategy. In addition, an embedded Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics, provides the opportunity for you to earn a valuable credential on the path to your STEM MBA.Get hands-on experience with industry-leading data analytics tools Dig into the world of statistics and data analytics with a comprehensive introduction to analytics. Explore relevant topics like data collection, analysis and visualization, alongside probability, statistical inference and regression methods for making informed decisions. Build on introductory material and discover how data visualization and reporting enables you to transform data into a goldmine of business insights. Learn the art of collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to craft captivating visualizations, dashboards and stories that drive success. You'll master the skills to structure and streamline data projects, while presenting their impact with precision. Learn pro strategies to uncover hidden insights and organize data In a world overflowing with data, the ability to extract valuable insights and manage data effectively is invaluable. By taking a closer look into the world of data mining and Big Data analytics, you’ll learn how to approach massive datasets and unstructured information to unearth hidden insights. Because data is the lifeblood of many organizations, proper structure and organization is a must. You’ll master the art of data management through coursework in the fundamentals of database management systems, SQL for data analytics, relational database design and data warehousing.Read more >






  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 









  Your Best Value MBA




Choose Franklin's STEM-designated MBA and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget.  







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates make Franklin's MBA STEM a professional investment you can feel confident about.







Fastest Finish


18
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner and reap the benefits.

Take 2 classes at a time and finish in 16 months.
×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Instructor Led




Online courses taught by in-field experts = a winning combo for you.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








Non-Profit = Student Focused




Unlike for-profit universities, Franklin invests in student success, not shareholder gain.






×








  MBA-STEM Courses & Curriculum




				44 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




MGMT 707 - MBA Foundations (4)
More than ever before, the ability to understand and be understood is critical for success in the corporate world. Communication is no longer limited by the narrow definitions of the past. Achieving a business leadership position today means not only being adept at both oral and written communication, but also understanding communication from a strategic point-of-view and knowing how to effectively organize and present information to audiences of all sizes. In this course, you will develop and refine these capabilities. What you gain from this course will be of value throughout your MBA program, as well as in the workplace.


ECON 723 - Managerial Economics (4)
This course surveys the fundamental concepts and methods of economic analysis for managers. Real-world decision making is emphasized. Application of key economic concepts such as market demand, market supply, market equilibrium, marginal analysis, production, costs, revenue, profit, and market structure constitute the core material of the course.


MKTG 721 - Marketing Management (4)
In today's business world, success can often be attributed more to the genius of a company's marketing efforts than to the genius of its products or services. A clear understanding of the importance of marketing, as well as a grasp of effective marketing practices, is essential for anyone who wishes to achieve a position of leadership. You will gain a working knowledge of both marketing theory and the practical application of innovative marketing strategies. You will come to understand how product, price, place, and promotion contribute to the marketing mix as you explore research-based insights into consumer behavior. As your final course assignment, you will prepare and present a marketing plan of your own.


ACCT 729 - Financial & Managerial Accounting (4)
Effective leadership in today's complex and highly regulated business environment demands more than a working knowledge of basic accounting practices. Managers must fully grasp sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts and be able to apply them with ease in handling day-to-day responsibilities. Managers must also be well versed in the intricacies of corporate governance and asset protection. In this course, students will develop a clear understanding of these critical functions and issues. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting, including professional structure, the interrelationships of financial statements, and multiple forms of financial analysis. Additionally, the functional aspects of managerial accounting will be covered, including planning, decision making, and performance evaluation.


HRM 713 - Human Resource Management (4)
Organizations are composed of groups of people who work together to achieve defined outcomes. Experience has proven time and again that the key factor which differentiates successful companies from those who struggle to survive is people who make up the employee base. While the human resources function is given the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee-related issues and needs, individual managers have direct responsibility and accountability for motivating and leading employees to achieve sustained organizational success. The purpose of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work effectively with human resources to enhance the contributions of all employees to organizational effectiveness. Students will learn about the elements which drive business success, theories of motivation, and methods for creating a plan for maximizing the human capital of an organization.


MGMT 741 - Strategic Management (4)
One of the keys to success for today's organizations is their ability to develop, implement, and accurately evaluate effective business strategies. In this course, you will integrate the knowledge you have gained from your prior MBA courses to develop and sharpen your skills for formulating, deploying, and assessing an organization's strategy for achieving competitive advantage in the marketplace. This course will enable you to merge your knowledge of all of these individual disciplines into a comprehensive and meaningful whole.


MATH 601 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course provides an introductory overview of methods, concepts, and current practices in the growing field of statistics and data analytics. Topics to be covered include data collection, data analysis and visualization as well as probability, statistical inference and regression methods for informed decision-making. Students will explore these topics with current statistical software. Some emphasis will also be given to ethical principles of data analytics.


DATA 605 - Data Visualization & Reporting (4)
This course focuses on collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to create visualizations, dashboards, and stories that can be used to communicate critical business insights. Students will learn how to structure and streamline data analysis projects and highlight their implications efficiently using the most popular visualization tools used by businesses today.


DATA 610 - Big Data Analytics and Data Mining (4)
This course explores data mining methods and tools, examines the issues in the analytical analysis of massive datasets, and unstructured data. Students will learn the concepts and techniques to discover the patterns in large datasets, which support organizational decision making.


DATA 630 - Applied Database Management (4)
This course teaches data management from an applied perspective. The topics include fundamentals of database management systems, structured query language (SQL) for data analytics,  relational database design, and data warehousing.


BUSA 605 - Business Analytics Strategy (4)
This course taken prior to the Capstone in Business Analytics course allows students to apply the knowledge gained from the previous courses in the development of an analytics strategy for a business of choice. Given a range of options, students will research and choose the best analytics strategy under given scenarios. The course uses case studies, employing a problem and project-based approach to the development of a strategy.





				Additional Requirements			




Students are also able to take up to 6 credit hours of GRAD 610 - Experiential Learning for Graduate Studies.














Free Master's ToolkitEliminate guesswork by comparing schools and calculate the ROI of a master’s degree.Download Now >








  MBA-STEM Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Business Administration students must earn at least 32 of the 44 required credits at Franklin University – in any modality (on-site, hybrid or online).Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
None




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.






Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Faris Alami
International Strategic Management
Founder + CEO


Laurie Allen
Abbott Nutrition
Project Portfolio Manager


Cheralee Calhoun
Nationwide Insurance
Accounting Consultant


Jeffrey Ferezan
Franklin University
Adj. Faculty + Doctoral Fac. Adv.


Thomas Garrison
Truist
Legal Team


Michelle Leigh
Lendersservicers Compliance Group
Executive Director


Tony Schradar
Anomaly and Data Integrity
Associate Director


Randall Strutz
Quality Distribution Inc.
President of Quality Carriers


John Torpey
American Electric Power
Retired








Employment Outlook





12%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Data & Analytics are expected to increase by 12%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Data Scientists
$108,014
179,836
36%




Data Scientists
									Median Salary: $108,014

									Job Postings: 179,836

									Projected Growth: 36%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionData Scientists develop and implement a set of techniques or analytics applications to transform raw data into meaningful information using data-oriented programming languages and visualization software. Apply data mining, data modeling, natural language processing, and machine learning to extract and analyze information from large structured and unstructured datasets. Visualize, interpret, and report data findings. May create dynamic data reports. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsData Analysts49,48628%Data Scientists46,35626%Business Intelligence Analysts15,6549%Enterprise Architects10,5176%Machine Learning Engineers10,0926%Data Science Managers4,8213%Data Analytics Managers4,3952%Lead Data Scientists3,7632%Data Modelers2,7692%Principal Data Scientists4,6213%Directors of Data Science2,9532%Principal Architects3,2242%Data Governance Analysts2,7652%SAP Functional Analysts2,3951%SAP Consultants1,9391%Machine Learning Software Engineers3,0312%Solutions Architects2,4921%Data Quality Analysts2,2561%Enterprise Solutions Architects2,9662%Modeling and Simulation Engineers3,3412%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsData Analysis107,27338%SQL (Programming Language)89,80032%Computer Science85,53230%Python (Programming Language)78,86628%Data Science67,41324%Machine Learning54,25919%Statistics54,09419%Project Management48,48917%R (Programming Language)45,34716%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)44,04116%Business Process43,00415%Business Requirements38,70914%Dashboard37,69513%Power BI37,24813%Finance36,49813%Data Visualization35,73813%Business Intelligence35,54613%SAP Applications33,80112%Data Modeling33,22212%Agile Methodology33,10312%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryComputer Systems Design and Related Services12%Management of Companies and Enterprises9%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services7%Insurance Carriers6%Scientific Research and Development Services5%Depository Credit Intermediation4%Other57% 
General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 
Management Analysts
$99,424
157,111
15%




Management Analysts
									Median Salary: $99,424

									Job Postings: 157,111

									Projected Growth: 15%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionManagement Analysts conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Analysts82,04352%IT Business Analysts10,1296%Program Analysts9,4876%Business Data Analysts6,1864%Business Process Analysts5,2363%Business Operations Analysts5,2143%Analytics Managers4,9953%Lead Business Analysts3,6152%Business Consultants4,0333%Salesforce Business Analysts3,3272%Management Analysts3,5012%Business Information Consultants2,5752%Management and Program Analysts2,7372%Servicenow Business Analysts2,2812%Business Services Analysts2,0381%Solutions Consultants1,7511%Independent Operators2,7852%Business Process Consultants1,7041%Business Solutions Analysts1,7411%Business Information Analysts1,7331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management61,84029%Business Process46,16222%Data Analysis45,85022%Business Requirements37,22318%SQL (Programming Language)34,89417%Finance32,02215%Agile Methodology31,06915%Business Analysis30,36214%Process Improvement28,82514%Workflow Management26,85413%Computer Science25,28612%Accounting21,25310%Marketing19,5149%Change Management18,6779%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)17,4618%Auditing17,3928%Dashboard16,8498%Scrum (Software Development)16,0068%Management Consulting15,9118%User Story15,7047%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services26%Federal Government, Civilian9%Computer Systems Design and Related Services7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Insurance Carriers5%Other42% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  MBA-STEM Knowledge and Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Executive Leadership & Business Strategy

			



Clearly articulate the organization’s mission, vision and values, and develop strategic plans for organization-wide implementation
Develop, communicate and implement priorities, goals and objectives in accordance with the strategic plans
Coordinate efforts across business lines and functions, harnessing organizational synergies and ensuring strategic alignment
Create and monitor strategies to ensure long-term financial viability
Identify key metrics and develop reporting systems to measure performance across functional units, identifying growth and efficiency opportunities
Develop organizational core competencies, positioning organizations to create competitive advantages in evolving industries
Oversee product-line strategies, generating prioritized, actionable insights from consumer and industry research
Apply effective change management strategies to help leadership, employees and other stakeholders successfully embrace organizational changes and improve performance
	 







			
  Marketing Management

			



Review all elements of the marketing mix, including product formulation, price, packaging and promotion to build brand equity and optimize sales, market share and profitability
Implement multi-year brand-category growth strategies, leveraging product development and marketing innovations
Develop and execute annual marketing plans to achieve market share, volume and profit objectives
Create unique and ownable market positions relative to competitors with clear points of differentiation
Leverage the full marketing mix, executing on compelling tactics that ingrain brand position and key differentiators into the minds of target audiences
Determine the most effective media mix across traditional and digital channels, balancing direct response initiatives with building long-term brand equity
Closely monitor and analyze sales volumes, market share trends and competitive activity
Assure effectiveness of marketing programs by completing post-promotion analysis of data, comparing results to established objectives
Collaborate with internal teams to drive success via customer engagement, competitive positioning, pricing and promotional activities
Promote strategic priorities and drive brand reputation through development and management of leadership events and speaking opportunities
	 







			
  Financial & Managerial Accounting

			



Maintain accounting standards, ensuring compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
Prepare consolidated financial statements, including balance sheets, income statements and statements of cash flow
Prepare account reconciliation
Consolidate and submit financial transaction reports
Analyze financial statements
Collaborate with business development in tracking and reporting sales efforts
Determine how changes in business and organizational structure impact reporting and operating results
Analyze transactions to identify issues, determine root causes of variances, and recommend appropriate corrective action
Ensure integrity of financial data for decision support and cost accounting systems, maintaining cost standards
Provide costing reports and make recommendations to support change in resource allocations, work methods and materials
Recommend and implement process, systems and reporting improvements to provide more visibility into financial results
Develop and execute cost-effective actions and expense-saving initiatives in support of financial objectives
Use accounting principles and practices to inform and recommend process improvement changes







			
  Human Resource Management

			



Create top-talent management development and succession planning processes
Attract, recruit and inspire A-list employees who can help drive organizational success
Identify key domestic and international forces impacting the current and future workforce
Develop, coach and train high performance employees and managers to attain high levels of responsibility and performance
Design and implement organizational change strategies to enhance employee motivation and organizational efficiency
Build highly effective teams that work together to solve problems and innovate 







			
  STEM

			



Develop and execute technology strategies aligned with business goals
Manage technology projects, budgets and timelines
Evaluate and select emerging technologies for potential integration into the organization
Lead data analysis projects to extract actionable insights from large datasets
Develop data-driven strategies to enhance business decision-making and operations
Design and implement data models, algorithms and predictive models
Identify emerging technologies and trends with potential business impact
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to bring innovative ideas to market
Monitor and measure the success of innovation initiatives
Engage with key stakeholders to ensure appropriate business scenarios are accurately modeled
Identify and implement improvements to tools, processes and digital platforms
Apply statistical concepts and techniques to analyze and predict user behavior and behavioral drivers
Recommend new innovations, tools and methodologies that support process efficiency and business growth









  Find the Master's Program That Fits Your Goals




If you’re interested advancing your business career, Franklin has several great options. The best fit for you depends on your interests and goals. Compare programs and identify your perfect match.









tab_icon/color/experience
Created with Sketch.












tab_icon/white/experience
Created with Sketch.











								MBA-STEM
			





tab_icon/color/programs
Created with Sketch.













tab_icon/white/programs
Created with Sketch.












								MBA-Business Analytics
			





tab_icon/color/curriculum
Created with Sketch.













tab_icon/white/curriculum
Created with Sketch.












								M.S. in Business Analytics
			



Focus:
Combine core business knowledge with applied analytics skills to improve decision making.

Skills:
Acquire applied skills in data manipulation and visualization alongside foundations of business and management.

Careers: 
Leverage critical-thinking and problem-solving skills to develop effective solutions for complex business issues.  

How many courses are in the program?
11 (Seven 6-week courses and Four 12-week courses)

How quickly can I complete the program?
18 months


Focus: 
Expand your expertise in business to include management and leadership, while gaining familiarity with data analysis.

Skills:
Build management and leadership skills along with broad application of analytics principles.

Careers: 
Use your MBA-Business Analytics to make data-informed decisions that improve business results.

How many courses are in the program?
Nine (Six 6-week courses and three 12-week courses)

How quickly can I complete the program?
12 months


Focus: 
Build on your knowledge of statistics to master data science tools and methods for practical application.

Skills:
Gain statistical and analytical skills to excel in a variety of industries.
Careers: 
Use your M.S. in Business Analytics in specialized roles responsible for using data to solve problems.

How many courses are in the program?
Eight (Four 12-week courses + Four 6-week courses)

How quickly can I complete the program?
12 months








  MBA-STEM Frequently Asked Questions






		What is a STEM MBA?
		


The STEM MBA is a graduate degree that combines the traditional MBA curriculum with a STEM-related discipline. Franklin’s STEM MBA is a theory-to-practice program that combines foundational knowledge of business and leadership alongside skills in business analytics and data analytics. 




		What can you do with an MBA in STEM?
		


With an MBA in STEM, you’ll gain in-demand business and management skills, combined with leading edge analytics skills that will qualify you to lead and work in a variety of roles including technology consultant, decision scientist and business intelligence manager.




		Why get an online STEM MBA?
		


With an online STEM MBA, you'll build your knowledge in essential areas of business while gaining in-demand skills in data analytics to make you a better, more informed decision maker - and therefore a more effective leader. An MBA, like Franklin’s STEM-designated program, is a degree universally recognized for advanced business knowledge, while the STEM component provides applied knowledge in analytics, data visualization and reporting, Big Data and data mining, database management and business analytics strategy.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA STEM program unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA STEM program can be completed  in 18 months 100% online or through a combination of online and on campus classes. Created with input from industry experts, Franklin’s theory-to-practice program combines real-world simulations and case studies in courses taught by in-field practitioners. 




		When can I start Franklin’s online STEM MBA?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA in STEM cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get a STEM MBA? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your STEM MBA in as few as 18 months, which is faster than the average for similar programs.




		Will my MBA in STEM be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. The MBA-STEM is designated on diplomas and official transcripts. 




		Will my STEM MBA be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. The STEM MBA is included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas. 


See All >









Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog