URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/mba-programs/organizational-leadership
Online MBA in Organizational Leadership Specialization Program | Franklin.edu



















MBA-Organizational Leadership Specialization
 

  

36Credit Hours12Month CompletionClass Type100% onlineSee state availabilityNext Start Date
            Jan 6, 2025
                          About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
                                                              Feb 17, 2025
                                                              Mar 31, 2025Summer 2025
                                                              May 19, 2025
                                                              Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
                                                              Aug 18, 2025
                                                              Sep 29, 2025
                                                              Nov 10, 2025Spring 2026
                                                              Jan 5, 2026
                                                              Feb 16, 2026
                                                              Mar 30, 2026Summer 2026
                                                              May 18, 2026
                                                              Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
                                                              Aug 17, 2026
                                                              Sep 28, 2026
                                                              Nov 9, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationAccreditationIACBE Accreditation InformationThe Ross College of Business at Franklin University has received specialized accreditation for its business programs through the International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE) located  at 11960 Quivira Road in Overland Park, Kansas, USA. For a listing of accredited programs, click here. Click here to see our IACBE Public Disclosure of Student Achievement. Learn more >Request InfoApply TodayCost Estimator

Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              MBA Programs
                /  
                                              MBA-Organizational Leadership
                          

  Be a change-leading team builder with an online MBA in organizational leadership


Employees who align their purpose with the purpose of their organization are more engaged and perform at higher levels. Effective organizational leadership is grounded in the ability to create a high-performance culture that organically facilitates the acquisition and retention of top talent. Franklin’s online accredited MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership provides theory-to-practice coursework in leadership theory, change management and managerial psychology. While your MBA will prepare you to run a business, you’ll also be well equipped with leadership skills that foster teamwork, effective communication and employee motivation.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site










  1-Year Online MBA
Finish your MBA in Organizational Leadership faster.



  Real-World Experts
Learn best practices from in-field professionals.



  IACBE Accredited

Our program follows best-practice standards for business education.



  No GRE/GMAT Required
Bypass expensive, time consuming tests and get started sooner.










  MBA-Organizational Leadership Program Overview





  Determine your leadership style and develop your leadership voice

You’ll survey leadership theories and concepts to find your own style and discover how it influences the practice of leading. You’ll identify leadership skills that will resonate within your current organization, assess your leadership strengths and weaknesses, and develop a plan of action to further develop and refine your leadership competencies.Learn how to plan and implement changeChange management is a dynamic process. To develop a process to lead change within an organization, you’ll research theories and proven methods critical to leading organizational change initiatives. You’ll assess internal and external drivers of change to understand how to plan and implement change initiatives in organizational and other settings.  Create your personal management philosophyManagement is a foundational step for leaders. As part of the managerial psychology course, you’ll explore psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and leaders. You’ll critically compare managerial and leadership approaches and evaluate your own current managerial competencies. You’ll also cover other topics including nature vs. nurture in the development of leaders, the relationship between personality and leadership style, behavioral decision-making biases, groupthink and scenario planning.  Learn from in-field experts in instructor-led online sessionsIf you’re looking for the flexibility of online learning alongside personalized attention from faculty, you’ll find it at Franklin. Online synchronous meetings provide the opportunity to ask questions, dig into assignments, work through problems, and discuss course topics with the instructor as a class. While the interactive sessions are regularly scheduled in advance, they are optional and are recorded for students to access at a later time if they choose to. In addition to accessible faculty, who are in-field practitioners, some courses include industry experts as guest speakers. Read more >



Melissa M.
MBA Business Leader '22
"I've always wanted to obtain an MBA, but after a 20-year career,  I wasn't sure how beneficial it would be. I am so glad I didn't let that stop me. Not only did I achieve a deeper understanding of each piece of business, but this program and the professors also pushed me to think differently. With my increased confidence, I found a new position that allows me to showcase my new skills and feel like I make a difference every day. I highly recommend Franklin University and the MBA program!" 







  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Spring 2025March31Recommended Register By: Mar 21 

Summer 2025May19Recommended Register By: May 9 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Fall 2025November10Recommended Register By: Oct 31 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Spring 2026March30Recommended Register By: Mar 20 

Summer 2026May18Recommended Register By: May 8 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 

Fall 2026November9Recommended Register By: Oct 30 














Your MBA degree, your way with Franklin’s FlexFIT Online MBA
Earn your master’s in business without throwing your life, budget and schedule into chaos. Franklin’s FlexFIT MBA degree program was designed specifically to help you avoid the typical roadblocks that stop others from finishing by giving you the flexibility you need to stay on track.
 
Here’s how FlexFIT empowers you to complete your master’s in business in the way that fits your:
Finances: Schedule as many or as few classes to accommodate your budget.
Interests: Pick your path. Choose from a general track for a broad-based business perspective or follow your interests with a focused specialization.
Time: Start, study and finish at your pace because with FlexFIT, you decide how much time to devote to your coursework.







  Your Best Value MBA




Choose Franklin's accredited MBA and get a high-quality degree that fits your life and your budget.  







Affordable Tuition


$670
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates for the M.S. in Business Psychology provide value and quality.






Fastest Finish


12
MONTHS TO COMPLETE

Realize your career goals sooner and reap the benefits.

Take 2 classes at a time and finish in 12 months.
×








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.








$24,120
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.






Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.


Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)

×








Instructor Led




Online courses taught by in-field experts = a winning combo for you.






×








  MBA-Organizational Leadership Courses & Curriculum





				Major Area Required			




MGMT 707 - MBA Foundations (4)
More than ever before, the ability to understand and be understood is critical for success in the corporate world. Communication is no longer limited by the narrow definitions of the past. Achieving a business leadership position today means not only being adept at both oral and written communication, but also understanding communication from a strategic point-of-view and knowing how to effectively organize and present information to audiences of all sizes. In this course, you will develop and refine these capabilities. What you gain from this course will be of value throughout your MBA program, as well as in the workplace.


ECON 723 - Managerial Economics (4)
This course surveys the fundamental concepts and methods of economic analysis for managers. Real-world decision making is emphasized. Application of key economic concepts such as market demand, market supply, market equilibrium, marginal analysis, production, costs, revenue, profit, and market structure constitute the core material of the course.


MKTG 721 - Marketing Management (4)
In today's business world, success can often be attributed more to the genius of a company's marketing efforts than to the genius of its products or services. A clear understanding of the importance of marketing, as well as a grasp of effective marketing practices, is essential for anyone who wishes to achieve a position of leadership. You will gain a working knowledge of both marketing theory and the practical application of innovative marketing strategies. You will come to understand how product, price, place, and promotion contribute to the marketing mix as you explore research-based insights into consumer behavior. As your final course assignment, you will prepare and present a marketing plan of your own.


ACCT 729 - Financial & Managerial Accounting (4)
Effective leadership in today's complex and highly regulated business environment demands more than a working knowledge of basic accounting practices. Managers must fully grasp sophisticated financial and managerial accounting concepts and be able to apply them with ease in handling day-to-day responsibilities. Managers must also be well versed in the intricacies of corporate governance and asset protection. In this course, students will develop a clear understanding of these critical functions and issues. Students will study the foundational aspects of financial accounting, including professional structure, the interrelationships of financial statements, and multiple forms of financial analysis. Additionally, the functional aspects of managerial accounting will be covered, including planning, decision making, and performance evaluation.


HRM 713 - Human Resource Management (4)
Organizations are composed of groups of people who work together to achieve defined outcomes. Experience has proven time and again that the key factor which differentiates successful companies from those who struggle to survive is people who make up the employee base. While the human resources function is given the specific task of planning for and resolving many employee-related issues and needs, individual managers have direct responsibility and accountability for motivating and leading employees to achieve sustained organizational success. The purpose of this course is to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work effectively with human resources to enhance the contributions of all employees to organizational effectiveness. Students will learn about the elements which drive business success, theories of motivation, and methods for creating a plan for maximizing the human capital of an organization.


MGMT 741 - Strategic Management (4)
One of the keys to success for today's organizations is their ability to develop, implement, and accurately evaluate effective business strategies. In this course, you will integrate the knowledge you have gained from your prior MBA courses to develop and sharpen your skills for formulating, deploying, and assessing an organization's strategy for achieving competitive advantage in the marketplace. This course will enable you to merge your knowledge of all of these individual disciplines into a comprehensive and meaningful whole.





				MBA or MBA with Specialization			



MBA:

MGMT 711 - Business Environment (4)
This course systematically explores the external environment in which businesses operate - legal and regulatory, macroeconomic, cultural, political, technological, and natural. Additionally, the course will examine the critical opportunities and threats that arise from an analysis of external business conditions. Students will apply scenario planning to a selected industry and synthesize trends in the external environment in the presence of risk and uncertainty.
OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.
FINA 737 - Corporate Finance (4)
Financial decisions made at the higher levels of a business organization can have far-reaching effects. Intended to achieve firm operating goals and create shareholder value, they must be made judiciously, with a thorough understanding of all the factors involved. In this course, you will learn to apply the analytical techniques required for developing effective and workable financial solutions at the executive level. You will gain an overall understanding of the workings of the U.S. financial system. In addition, you will study the concepts of financial risk, return, and the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure, and the evaluation of investment opportunities.


																					OR																			
Organizational Leadership Specialization:

MGMT 780 - Organizational Leadership Theories (4)
This course provides an overview of the historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs. Application and assessment of the individual leadership style will enable the student to develop their leadership voice.  This course will provide a construct that will enable the student to identify transferrable skills that align with the organization that they are serving in.  This course will challenge students to assess their own leadership strengths and weaknesses and produce an in-depth plan of action to develop and refine leadership competencies. Students will conduct substantive scholarly research to address and capture relevant and cutting-edge leadership theoretical work for application in course assignments.
MGMT 785 - Change Management for Organizational Leaders (4)
This course focuses on research and evaluation of the key theoretical concepts and practices central to the leading of organizational change initiatives. Students will evaluate real-world situations in a manner that supports the ability to initiate, implement and sustain major change. The management of change is a dynamic process. This course focuses on understanding how to plan and implement change in various organizations and other settings.

 
PSYC 603 - Managerial Psychology (4)
This course will explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders. Topics include: follower influences, nature vs. nurture in the development of leaders, relationship of personality to leadership style, behavioral decision- making biases, tactical, operational, and strategic decision-making , group think, and scenario planning.


																					OR																			
Finance Specialization:

FINA 737 - Corporate Finance (4)
Financial decisions made at the higher levels of a business organization can have far-reaching effects. Intended to achieve firm operating goals and create shareholder value, they must be made judiciously, with a thorough understanding of all the factors involved. In this course, you will learn to apply the analytical techniques required for developing effective and workable financial solutions at the executive level. You will gain an overall understanding of the workings of the U.S. financial system. In addition, you will study the concepts of financial risk, return, and the valuation of bonds, common and preferred stock, cost of capital, capital budgeting, capital structure, and the evaluation of investment opportunities.
FINA 750 - Advanced Investment (4)
This course provides students with advanced knowledge of the capital markets, financial institutions, financial products, and analytical tools and skills needed for investments portfolio management.  The objective is to provide students with a solid foundation of advanced concepts, tools, and techniques for making informed decisions in the highly dynamic investment environment.  Students will utilize computer software, simulations, and internet tools to understand the viewpoint of professional investors more fully. The course will adopt an application-oriented approach so that students will be able to explain their financial decision under conditions of uncertainty.  The course will provide students with a framework that will be useful in business settings where such analyses are routinely made.
FINA 773 - Global Finance (4)
No longer are only mammoth corporations concerned with the complexities and nuances of multinational financial operations. Today the leaders of companies of even moderate size often must have at least a fundamental knowledge of the global financial environment. In this course, you will be introduced to the workings of international finance as it relates to business operations. You will gain an understanding of such international macroeconomic topics as the balance of payments and models of exchange rate determination, while at the same time focusing on institutional issues such as the choice of exchange rate regime and growth of offshore currency markets. You will examine business and investor decisions involving exchange rate risk management, cross-border investment strategies, and participation in international money and capital markets.


																					OR																			
Business Analytics Specialization:

MATH 601 - Introduction to Analytics (4)
This course provides an introductory overview of methods, concepts, and current practices in the growing field of statistics and data analytics. Topics to be covered include data collection, data analysis and visualization as well as probability, statistical inference and regression methods for informed decision-making. Students will explore these topics with current statistical software. Some emphasis will also be given to ethical principles of data analytics.
DATA 605 - Data Visualization & Reporting (4)
This course focuses on collecting, preparing, and analyzing data to create visualizations, dashboards, and stories that can be used to communicate critical business insights. Students will learn how to structure and streamline data analysis projects and highlight their implications efficiently using the most popular visualization tools used by businesses today.
DATA 630 - Applied Database Management (4)
This course teaches data management from an applied perspective. The topics include fundamentals of database management systems, structured query language (SQL) for data analytics,  relational database design, and data warehousing.


																					OR																			
Operational Excellence Specialization:

GRAD 770 - Lean Six Sigma (4)
The purpose of this course is to train individuals in Lean Six Sigma skills and strategies to improve processes and provide safe, effective care environments. The learner will demonstrate the practical application of tools utilized with Lean Six Sigma methodologies. Students will have the opportunity to apply the knowledge learned during this course concurrently with a case study designed specifically to use Six Sigma methodologies. Students will develop a Lean Six Sigma project plan that can serve as the foundation for completing a major project for Lean Six Sigma certification following the completion of the course. Interested students would need to apply for Lean Six Sigma certification and complete the major project with Franklin University's Center for Professional Training & Development.
OSCM 731 - Operations Management (4)
In today's business environment, the success of organizations depends on the effective and efficient management of operations. Methods to select, plan, and improve organizational processes will be examined. The application of optimal capacity decisions in supply chains, development production, and inventory plans and schedules will be performed. The student will learn quality management and improvement process to increase the efficiency of a process.
OSCM 780 - Introduction to Operations Excellence (4)
Operational excellence can provide an important competitive advantage for firms in today?s marketplace.  This course presents the concepts in quality.  It builds upon the responses of six sigma and lean principles.  This course also blends qualitative and quantitative information so that organizations can capitalize on opportunities and data driven management.


																					OR																			
Business Psychology Specialization:

PSYC 601 - Introduction to Business Psychology (4)
A brief history and overview of the fields of business and psychology as well as a discussion of the issues and opportunities related to their integration. Topics include brain organization and dominance, neuroethics, neurolinguistic programming, multiminds, mindmapping and the application of positive psychology to work settings. Includes the application of recent discoveries in cognitive psychology and neuroscience to resolve contemporary issues in the workplace. 
PSYC 602 - Individual & Organizational Intelligence (4)
This course focuses on the application of systems theory, social psychology concepts, organizational lifecycles, and biological principles to the understanding of business operations. Includes a review of basic business principles, multiple intelligences, organizational intelligence, organizational culture, emotional intelligence, biomimicry and organizational DNA. 
PSYC 607 - Psychology of Creativity, Innovation And Change (4)
This course provides a study of the relationship between creativity, innovation and change from a psychological perspective. Areas of interest include: social-technical change waves, change facilitation, unintended consequences, Appreciative Inquiry, creativity enhancement, and diffusion of innovation. 


																					OR																			
Marketing Specialization:

MCM 711 - Digital Marketing Strategies (4)
The integration of existing and emerging technology with marketing and communication strategies has become a major marketing and societal force. Topics explored in this course will range from social media strategies to the metrics used to analyze the impact of integrated digital marketing campaigns.
MCM 713 - Marketing Communication Essentials (4)
The ability to develop communication strategies has never been more important for business leaders than in today's complex digital marketing environment. In this course, you will develop a broad knowledge of the fundamentals of effective marketing communication planning and implementation.
MCM 733 - Marketing Communication Planning (4)
In this course, students will demonstrate their marketing competencies by developing marketing strategies and tactics for a live client, including market analysis, target marketing, branding, and message development.


																					OR																			
Human Resources Specialization:

HRM 702 - Employee Rights, Responsibilities, Discp (4)
The primary purpose of this course is to introduce the principle theories and practices in the area of employment and workplace law. Topics include the federal and state laws associated with hiring, firing and discipline, medical leave (including FMLA, ADA and worker's compensation), discrimination, harassment, immigration, labor law, unemployment compensation, workplace privacy. Additional topics may include workplace investigations, workplace violence and employment-related legal processes, including EEOC Charges and lawsuits.
HRM 706 - Organizational Development/Intervention (4)
This course addresses the need for planned change focused on an organization's ability to compete strategically. The framework of consultation as helping organizations reach a level of optimum performance will be applied. Topics addressed include individual, team, and organization-wide interventions that can raise productivity/quality, improve competitiveness, increase skills, morale, and commitment.
HRM 708 - Strategic Human Resource Planning (4)
The course will introduce students to the field of strategic human resource management (SHRM). Current topics in SHRM that have resulted from environmental and organizational challenges, e.g., technology, globalization, legislation, restructuring, work/life balance, changing labor markets, are discussed Emphasis will be placed on problem solving issues, policies, and practices affecting HR specialists, practitioners, and managers.


																					OR																			
Information Technology Specialization:

ITEC 640 - Project Management (4)
This course examines various issues related to the management of information systems. Topics include: strategic planning, organizing the technology resources, means of prioritizing and selecting information technology, staffing, personnel management, and assessment.
DATA 630 - Applied Database Management (4)
This course teaches data management from an applied perspective. The topics include fundamentals of database management systems, structured query language (SQL) for data analytics,  relational database design, and data warehousing.
CYSC 610 - Information Assurance (4)
This course covers the fundamentals of security in the enterprise environment. Included are coverage of risks and vulnerabilities, threat modeling, policy formation, controls and protection methods, encryption and authentication technologies, network security, cryptography, personnel and physical security issues, as well as ethical and legal issues. This foundational course serves as an introduction to many of the subsequent topics discussed in depth in later security courses. Note, this course has proctored exam(s). This exam requires additional technology, if student uses online proctoring.














Free Master's ToolkitEliminate guesswork by comparing schools and calculate the ROI of a master’s degree.Download Now >








  MBA-Organizational Leadership Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the Master of Business Administration matrix.






			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.Complete the residency requirement:Master of Business Administration students must earn at least 32 of the 44 required credits at Franklin University – in any modality (on-site, hybrid or online).Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a bachelor's degree from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with a GPA of at least a 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.Applicants who earned at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree will automatically be granted conditional enrollment status. Applicants who earned lower than a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale in their earned bachelor’s degree can petition for conditional enrollment status to the program chair by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate program. This petition could include details on the applicant’s work experience, work ethic, level of professionalism, personality characteristics, level of difficulty of program of study previously completed, etc. Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
None




English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.






Program Advisory Board

The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.


Name
Organization
Title


Faris Alami
International Strategic Management
Founder + CEO


Laurie Allen
Abbott Nutrition
Project Portfolio Manager


Cheralee Calhoun
Nationwide Insurance
Accounting Consultant


Jeffrey Ferezan
Franklin University
Adj. Faculty + Doctoral Fac. Adv.


Thomas Garrison
Truist
Legal Team


Michelle Leigh
Lendersservicers Compliance Group
Executive Director


Tony Schradar
Anomaly and Data Integrity
Associate Director


Randall Strutz
Quality Distribution Inc.
President of Quality Carriers


John Torpey
American Electric Power
Retired








Employment Outlook





11%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Operations & Project Management are expected to increase by 11%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Industrial-Organizational Psychologists
$147,410
449
12%




Industrial-Organizational Psychologists
									Median Salary: $147,410

									Job Postings: 449

									Projected Growth: 12%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionIndustrial-Organizational Psychologists apply principles of psychology to human resources, administration, management, sales, and marketing problems. Activities may include policy planning; employee testing and selection, training, and development; and organizational development and analysis. May work with management to organize the work setting to improve worker productivity.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsIndustrial/Organizational Psychologists7817%Patient Care Associates7316%Inpatient Psychologists10523%Organizational Psychologists235%Inpatient Psychiatrists327%Psychiatric Registered Nurses164%Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioners133%Adult Inpatient Psychiatrists205%Locum Tenens Psychiatry Physicians/Psychiatrists102%Psychiatrists174%Assessment Analysts51%Inpatient/Outpatient Coders102%Operational Psychologists92%Tenure-Track Professors92%Adjunct Faculties41%Behavioral Health Registered Nurses82%Disc Jockeys41%Health Economics Managers41%Psychiatry Physicians/Psychiatrists41%Burn Unit Registered Nurses51%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsPsychology12942%Psychiatry9832%Nursing6521%Industrial And Organizational Psychology6321%Project Management4615%Data Analysis3511%Direct Patient Care3411%Patient Assistance3210%Behavioral Health3110%Emergency Departments3110%Change Management3010%Medical Surgical Nursing3010%Critical Care289%Intensive Care Unit289%Cath Lab279%Dialysis279%Intravenous Therapy279%Pediatrics279%Infectious Diseases268%Medical Terminology268%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services52%Scientific Research and Development Services21%Local Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals6%Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services6%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools3%Other7% 
General and Operations Managers
$101,275
553,579
10%




General and Operations Managers
									Median Salary: $101,275

									Job Postings: 553,579

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionGeneral and Operations Managers plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations, overseeing multiple departments or locations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services. Usually manage through subordinate supervisors. Excludes First-Line Supervisors.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsOperations Managers98,41118%Management Trainees60,82811%General Managers51,9559%Shift Supervisors39,7507%Operations Supervisors53,85910%Assistant General Managers33,6916%Directors of Operations33,6266%Assistant Managers45,7458%Managers-in-Training27,6525%District Managers21,1254%Executive Directors16,7243%Vice Presidents of Operations11,6852%Hourly Managers7,8771%Area Managers8,5022%General Managers In Training8,1682%Studio Managers5,5071%Store Management Trainees12,1582%Business Managers6,7071%Regional Directors of Operations5,5211%Dispensary Managers4,0881%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsOperations Management76,41114%Marketing72,61914%Merchandising68,90213%Finance51,57410%Project Management47,4239%Auditing46,1499%Retail Operations44,3968%Profit And Loss (P&L) Management42,1598%Inventory Management41,2958%Continuous Improvement Process39,4007%Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)35,4687%Accounting32,8486%Process Improvement31,0986%Selling Techniques30,7206%Restaurant Operation28,0205%Customer Relationship Management26,2855%Warehousing23,9424%Business Development23,4494%Loss Prevention23,4324%Product Knowledge22,9184%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryRestaurants and Other Eating Places4%Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services4%Management of Companies and Enterprises3%Computer Systems Design and Related Services3%Building Equipment Contractors2%Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities2%Other83% 
Management Analysts
$99,424
157,111
15%




Management Analysts
									Median Salary: $99,424

									Job Postings: 157,111

									Projected Growth: 15%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionManagement Analysts conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsBusiness Analysts82,04352%IT Business Analysts10,1296%Program Analysts9,4876%Business Data Analysts6,1864%Business Process Analysts5,2363%Business Operations Analysts5,2143%Analytics Managers4,9953%Lead Business Analysts3,6152%Business Consultants4,0333%Salesforce Business Analysts3,3272%Management Analysts3,5012%Business Information Consultants2,5752%Management and Program Analysts2,7372%Servicenow Business Analysts2,2812%Business Services Analysts2,0381%Solutions Consultants1,7511%Independent Operators2,7852%Business Process Consultants1,7041%Business Solutions Analysts1,7411%Business Information Analysts1,7331%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsProject Management61,84029%Business Process46,16222%Data Analysis45,85022%Business Requirements37,22318%SQL (Programming Language)34,89417%Finance32,02215%Agile Methodology31,06915%Business Analysis30,36214%Process Improvement28,82514%Workflow Management26,85413%Computer Science25,28612%Accounting21,25310%Marketing19,5149%Change Management18,6779%Tableau (Business Intelligence Software)17,4618%Auditing17,3928%Dashboard16,8498%Scrum (Software Development)16,0068%Management Consulting15,9118%User Story15,7047%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryManagement, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services26%Federal Government, Civilian9%Computer Systems Design and Related Services7%State Government, Excluding Education and Hospitals5%Management of Companies and Enterprises5%Insurance Carriers5%Other42% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  MBA-Organizational Leadership Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Executive Leadership & Business Strategy

			



Clearly articulate the organization’s mission, vision and values, and develop strategic plans for organization-wide implementation
Develop, communicate and implement priorities, goals and objectives in accordance with the strategic plans
Coordinate efforts across business lines and functions, harnessing organizational synergies and ensuring strategic alignment
Create and monitor strategies to ensure long-term financial viability
Identify key metrics and develop reporting systems to measure performance across functional units, identifying growth and efficiency opportunities
Develop organizational core competencies, positioning organizations to create competitive advantages in evolving industries
Oversee product-line strategies, generating prioritized, actionable insights from consumer and industry research
Apply effective change management strategies to help leadership, employees and other stakeholders successfully embrace organizational changes and improve performance
	 







			
  Marketing Management

			



Review all elements of the marketing mix, including product formulation, price, packaging and promotion to build brand equity and optimize sales, market share and profitability
Implement multi-year brand-category growth strategies, leveraging product development and marketing innovations
Develop and execute annual marketing plans to achieve market share, volume and profit objectives
Create unique and ownable market positions relative to competitors with clear points of differentiation
Leverage the full marketing mix, executing on compelling tactics that ingrain brand position and key differentiators into the minds of target audiences
Determine the most effective media mix across traditional and digital channels, balancing direct response initiatives with building long-term brand equity
Closely monitor and analyze sales volumes, market share trends and competitive activity
Assure effectiveness of marketing programs by completing post-promotion analysis of data, comparing results to established objectives
Collaborate with internal teams to drive success via customer engagement, competitive positioning, pricing and promotional activities
Promote strategic priorities and drive brand reputation through development and management of leadership events and speaking opportunities
	 







			
  Financial & Managerial Accounting

			



Maintain accounting standards, ensuring compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
Prepare consolidated financial statements, including balance sheets, income statements and statements of cash flow
Prepare account reconciliation
Consolidate and submit financial transaction reports
Analyze financial statements
Collaborate with business development in tracking and reporting sales efforts
Determine how changes in business and organizational structure impact reporting and operating results
Analyze transactions to identify issues, determine root causes of variances, and recommend appropriate corrective action
Ensure integrity of financial data for decision support and cost accounting systems, maintaining cost standards
Provide costing reports and make recommendations to support change in resource allocations, work methods and materials
Recommend and implement process, systems and reporting improvements to provide more visibility into financial results
Develop and execute cost-effective actions and expense-saving initiatives in support of financial objectives
Use accounting principles and practices to inform and recommend process improvement changes







			
  Human Resource Management

			



Create top-talent management development and succession planning processes
Attract, recruit and inspire A-list employees who can help drive organizational success
Identify key domestic and international forces impacting the current and future workforce
Develop, coach and train high performance employees and managers to attain high levels of responsibility and performance
Design and implement organizational change strategies to enhance employee motivation and organizational efficiency
Build highly effective teams that work together to solve problems and innovate 







			
  Organizational Leadership

			



Demonstrable ability to create transformational change strategies, practical approaches, activities and measures to drive and sustain behavior change
Possess strong general management consulting skillset, including project scoping and management, hypothesis development, research, benchmarking, trend identification, pattern identification, and summarizing findings and insights 
Ability to analyze, diagnose and resolve problems quickly, efficiently and collaboratively 
Responsible for the planning and delivery of the organization’s OpEx training, in alignment with Corporate OpEx standards and guidelines
	 







			
  Change Management

			



Demonstrate proficiency in change management theories and methods and strong ability to pragmatically apply to business challenges focused on the people and behavior side of change
Evolve business process landscapes in anticipation of changing business needs
Ensure organizational change management project deliverables, schedule and scope are managed, including the development of recovery plans, to stay within approved limits
Develop plans associated with transition management, implementation of major initiatives, communications associated with major initiatives, risk assessment and organizational transformation and culture change.
	 







			
  Operations Management

			



Establish a culture of innovation and process excellence, identifying process improvement opportunities that increase productivity, reduce costs and improve customer satisfaction
Create and maintain project-based documentation, including timelines, budget, project plans, risk assessments, performance requirements and status reports
Supervise, support and evaluate operations, including participating in professional development planning and implementation
Ensure consistency and integration of plan processes with overall organizational initiatives
Identify, analyze and execute a broad range of projects involving corporate strategy, acquisitions and/or partnerships
Oversee implementation of operational strategies to drive organizational success and transformation, delivering insights and actionable recommendations
Translate project objectives into team assignments, specific tasks and measurable milestones, establishing operational objectives and work plans









  Get College Credit for What You Already Know




The certificates and training listed below are relevant to this degree program. Search our database to view pre-evaluated credentials and see how a license, certification or professional training saves you time and money toward your degree.












Most Value
Alphabetical













Visit MyCertificates + Training to view all pre-evaluated credentials.













  Find the Organizational Leadership Program That Fits Your Goals




If you’re interested in advancing your organizational leadership career, Franklin has several great options. The best fit for you depends on your interests and goals. Compare programs and identify your perfect match.









icon_tiles/it-cross-color
Created with Sketch.













icon_tiles/it-cross-white
Created with Sketch.












								MHA-Organizational Leadership
			





icon_tiles/it-building_columns-color
Created with Sketch.





















icon_tiles/it-building_columns-white
Created with Sketch.




















								MPA-Organizational Leadership
			





icon_tiles/it-briefcase-color
Created with Sketch.



















icon_tiles/it-briefcase-white
Created with Sketch.


















								MBA-Organizational Leadership
			



Focus: Develop expertise in strategic leadership and organizational alignment to become a more effective catalyst for change.Skills: Build and refine your problem-solving and decision making skills to set research-backed change initiatives and achieve organizational goals. Careers: Let your MHA-Organizational Leadership empower you to create an evidence-based, cooperative workplace.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months 


Focus: Enhance your effectiveness in public administration by developing your authentic leadership style.Skills: Cultivate skills in managing people and change, as well as fostering innovation.Careers: Put your MPA-Organizational Leadership to motivate teams to make a difference.How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?14 months 


Focus: Compliment business knowledge with courses in leadership theory, change management and managerial psychology.Skills: Hone leadership skills that help individuals align their personal and organizational purposes to achieve results. Careers: Use your MBA-Organizational Leadership to create and sustain a high-performance culture. How many courses are in the program?Nine, 6-week classesHow quickly can I complete the program?12 months 








  MBA-Organizational Leadership Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)






		What is an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


The MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership is a master’s-level program that provides theory-to-practice coursework in leadership theory, change management and managerial psychology. While your MBA will prepare you to run a business, you’ll also be well equipped with leadership skills that foster teamwork, effective communication and employee motivation.




		What can you do with an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership, you’ll be prepared for a variety of positions including sales manager, human resource manager and management analyst.




		Why get an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


With an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership, you’ll review historical and current leadership concepts, theories and constructs; focus on understanding how to plan and implement change in various organizations and other settings; and explore the psychological influences on the development and behavior of managers and organizational leaders.




		What makes Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership unique?
		


Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership is a 12-month, 100% online program created with input from industry experts in business and finance. In Franklin’s theory-to-practice program, you’ll learn through a combination of real-world simulations and case studies and be taught by in-field practitioners.




		When can I start Franklin’s MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership?
		


Choose from eight start dates each year – fall (August, September and November), spring (January, February and March) or summer (May and June).




		How much will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $670 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership? 
		


Franklin's master's degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working adults -- that means you could finish your MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership in as few as 12 months.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership be designated on my diploma? 
		


Yes. Specializations are designated on diplomas and included on official transcripts.




		Will my MBA with a Specialization in Organizational Leadership be included on my transcripts? 
		


Yes. Specializations are included on official transcripts and designated on diplomas.


See All >




Back to College Blog




Best MBA in Operations: What Program is Right for You?



What Salary Can You Earn with an MBA in Marketing? 



Is an MBA in Human Resources Worth It?



What Is an MBA in Finance?



What Can You Do With an MBA in Finance?










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog