URL: https://www.franklin.edu/degrees/masters/msn-programs/nurse-educator
Online Masters in Nursing Education | MSN Nurse Educator | Franklin.edu



















M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Educator
 

  37Credit Hours18Month CompletionClass TypeSee state availabilityNext Start Date
								Jan 6, 2025
																	About Start DatesAdditional future start dates include:Spring 2025
																																			Feb 17, 2025Summer 2025
																																			Jun 30, 2025Fall 2025
																																			Aug 18, 2025
																																			Sep 29, 2025Spring 2026
																																			Jan 5, 2026
																																			Feb 16, 2026Summer 2026
																																			Jun 29, 2026Fall 2026
																																			Aug 17, 2026
																																			Sep 28, 2026Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.Placement TestsGMAT/GRE not required for admissionPlacement InformationAccreditationCCNE Accreditation InformationThe Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Master of Science in Nursing, post-graduate APRN certificates, and Doctor of Nursing Practice programs at Franklin University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (http://www.ccneaccreditation.org).Request InfoApply TodayCost Estimator Home
                /  
                                              Degrees
                /  
                                              Master's Degrees
                /  
                                              MSN Programs
                /  
                                              Nursing-Nurse Educator
                          

  Train top-notch nurses with an online master’s in nursing education


Take a leading role in the effort to reverse the U.S. nursing shortage by becoming a nurse educator in an academic or healthcare environment. Franklin’s online M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Educator track blends advanced nursing theory and evidence-based practice with industry-aligned courses in instructional design, curriculum design and learning assessment. This CCNE-accredited MSN degree prepares you to assume advanced roles and responsibilities in the increasingly in-demand field of nursing education in as few as 18 months.


Program Availability

Alabama
Alaska
American Samoa
Arizona
Arkansas
Armed Forces America
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District Of Columbia
Federated States of Micronesia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Islands
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming



						Online
					
On Site




Other nursing programs that are available in :

M.S. in Nursing - Generalist (MSN)
M.S. in Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)
M.S. in Nursing - Nurse Administrator
M.S. in Nursing - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner
M.S. in Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner









  Finish in as Few as 18 Months
Earn your degree and prepare for advancement faster.



  Accredited
The master's degree program in nursing at Franklin University is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education.



  100% Online Coursework
Balance earning your degree with other work-life commitments.



  Contemporary Curriculum
Evaluate and study trending nursing topics throughout the program.



  Learn from the Best
Benefit from the expertise of seasoned, in-field practitioners.











  M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Educator Program Overview





  Fill the gap in nursing education and position yourself for continued professional development

Retirement and burnout are two contributors to the nationwide nursing shortage, which is expected to last until 2030, but another factor in the growing problem is the lack of qualified educators in-place to train aspiring nurses. In fact, according to a report by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, more than 90,000 qualified applicants were turned away from bachelor’s and master’s-level nursing programs in 2021. Survey respondents cited faculty shortage as a top reason for not accepting all qualified applicants. As a result, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, predicts a 20% increase in employment for nurse educators through 2028. An online master’s in nursing education from Franklin qualifies you for teaching positions in clinical and academic settings, as well as nonprofit organizations or the insurance industry. While patient care positions often offer higher salaries, education roles tout competitive benefits and more predictable schedules. The MSN-Nurse Educator is also a good stepping stone toward doctoral study in nursing and continued personal and professional development. As a graduate of Franklin’s MSN-Nurse Educator program, you’ll emerge as a competent and compassionate nurse educator, able to contribute to the advancement of nursing education, the nursing profession and the delivery of high-quality patient care.Excel as a nurse educator Through Franklin’s School of Nursing (SON), you’ll build a strong foundation in clinical judgment, leadership and advocacy. However, as a benefit of the collaboration between the SON and the University’s International Institute for Innovative Instruction, the MSN-Nurse Educator program combines comprehensive advanced nursing theory and practice with industry-leading instructional design strategies and techniques. Through your choice of focus area courses, you’ll learn to assess educational needs and design tailored curricula, engage diverse learners, and integrate research findings into teaching practices. Get hands-on clinical experienceThrough the practicum and the capstone course, you’ll apply your knowledge in a healthcare or academic environment, refining your teaching abilities and developing your own philosophies. You’ll integrate the responsibilities of a nursing educator within a real-world context, incorporating key concepts covered throughout the MSN-Nurse Educator program. The 80-hour practicum provides an opportunity for you to focus on a specific population of interest or a particular clinical role. Under the guidance of an experienced nurse educator, you’ll engage in educational activities that unite pedagogy, instructional design, curriculum development and assessment of learner outcomes. The capstone course provides opportunities for weekly discussions and reflection on practicum learnings. In addition to presenting your experiences on leadership, mentorship and collaboration, you’ll also learn from other students in the course.Read more >











  Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE)
The Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Master of Science in Nursing, post-graduate APRN certificates, and Doctor of Nursing Practice programs at Franklin University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (http://www.ccneaccreditation.org).Learn More










  Future Start Dates




Start dates for individual programs may vary and are subject to change. Please request free information & speak with an admission advisor for the latest program start dates.






Spring 2025January6Recommended Register By: Dec 27 

Spring 2025February17Recommended Register By: Feb 7 

Summer 2025June30Recommended Register By: Jun 20 

Fall 2025August18Recommended Register By: Aug 8 

Fall 2025September29Recommended Register By: Sep 19 

Spring 2026January5Recommended Register By: Dec 26 

Spring 2026February16Recommended Register By: Feb 6 

Summer 2026June29Recommended Register By: Jun 19 

Fall 2026August17Recommended Register By: Aug 7 

Fall 2026September28Recommended Register By: Sep 18 









  Your Best Value MSN Nurse Educator Program




Choose Franklin’s MSN Nurse Educator program and you’ll get more for your money while you make the most of your time. Complete your degree in as few as 21 months.







Affordable Tuition


$598
PER CREDIT HOUR

Affordable tuition rates for the accredited MSN Nurse Educator program provide value and quality.







Lower Fees




Save thousands of dollars in fees by choosing Franklin over other leading programs for your MSN Nurse Educator program.
.


Source: Internal research of leading programs (May 2022)

×








Tuition Guarantee




Inflation-proof your degree cost by locking-in your tuition rate from day one through graduation.







Highly Recommended


98%
STUDENT SATISFACTION

98% of graduating students would recommend Franklin to their family, friends and/or colleagues.

Source: Franklin University, Office of Career Development Student Satisfaction Survey (Summer 2023)
×








Partner? Pay Less.
Search below to see if you could save tuition through an employer or professional organization partnership.







$22,724
Total Tuition(After Partner Discount)









×







Curriculum & Course Descriptions



				37 Semester Hours
			


				Major Area Required			




NURS 612 - Role of the Master's Prepared Nurse (3)
This course assesses the various roles of the master's prepared nurse.  The influence of the health care delivery systems, health care policy, diversity, ethics, quality, safety, theory, evidence based practice, and information systems on the role of the master's prepared nurse will be explored.


NURS 650 - Population Focused Care (3)
Theories, principles, and strategies of population-based health care are used to design, implement, and evaluate services and plans of care to promote, maintain, and restore health in a defined population. Students focus on population aggregates in structured or unstructured settings across service environments. Strategies to evaluate outcomes and costs are emphasized. Prerequisite NURS 612 or 613.


NURS 693 - Evidence Based Practice & Quality Improv (3)
This course will explore and analyze methods to improve nursing practice and health outcomes. Collaborative efforts and ethical concerns are considered. Emphasis is placed on critically evaluating evidence-based practice and quality assurance initiatives.


NURS 646 - Advanced Physical Assessment (3)
This course builds upon the student?s previous health assessment knowledge offering more advanced health assessment content to provide the foundation for advanced professional nursing roles. This course emphasizes knowledge of health assessment, including physical, psychosocial, spiritual health assessment, risk assessment, and functional assessment in diverse populations in the promotion of health and prevention of disease. To maintain a nursing focus on patient responses to health, illness, or the threat of illness, the nurse must exhibit effective communication and client teaching, which is incorporated throughout the course. The importance of effective documentation and health record keeping is included.


NURS 647 - Integrated Concepts of Disease Management  (4)
This course is designed to refine and further develop nursing knowledge and skills related to pathophysiology and pharmacology across the lifespan. The curriculum focuses on developing advanced knowledge and skills that nurse leaders and educators require for direct and indirect care in non-advanced practice roles. Students will explore the principles of pathophysiology and pharmacotherapeutics related to disease management and patient education. Students will examine how these concepts apply to diverse patient populations and the interprofessional team approach to care. (This course does not satisfy the requirements for a nurse practitioner). 


HCM 752 - Health Policy (4)
This course will explore the essential conceptual and analytical understanding of health policymaking and politics, including their impact on health administration and leadership.  Selected policy issues will be explored through the application of political concepts and behavioral models, including a system model of policymaking. The emphasis will be on understanding the health leader?s approach to the policymaking system, become involved in it, and work through it to attain their objectives and those of their organization.


NURS 795 - MSN Capstone  (4)
The purpose of this capstone course is to provide the student with the opportunity to examine the role of the master's prepared nurse in a health care or education setting. Using a combination approach of seminar and precepted clinical experience, the student focuses on the integration and application of major concepts covered throughout the graduate nursing program and assists in preparation for comprehensive evaluation. The student is assigned to a health care or educational setting under the direction of an experienced master's prepared nurse executive/educator/practitioner for the practicum portion of the course. Eighty (80) precepted clinical hours are required.


NURS 799 - MSN Practicum  (1-4)
The MSN practicum experience provides students with the opportunity to receive academic credit for experience in an authentic work environment, which may be either external or internal to the University depending on the student?s preference. The student will have the option of precepted or non-precepted experiences that are approved by the faculty member. 


IDPT 601 - Foundations of Instructional Design (4)
Learning theories and instructional design models are the two fundamental pillars for the field of instructional design. In this course, students will study the learning theories and philosophies that have formed, influence, and support this field. Students will also study instructional systems theories, models, and systematic approaches to instructional design. In this course, students will apply these theories, strategies, and instructional models to create a learning, instructional design, or training event in their chosen setting, whether business, government, healthcare, higher ed, industry, k-12, or other. At the end of this course, students will make a plan on how to prepare for an instructional design career.


																					AND																			

At least 2 of the following courses:
IDPT 640 - Enhancing Learning With Technology (4)
In this course, students will apply design principles to create a learning event that includes the use of new and emerging technologies. Students will research collaboration and networking tools for their use and value in learning environments. Delivery platforms and software will also be explored for their impact on instructional strategies. Projects completed in the course will become part of the student's portfolio.
OR IDPT 645 - Learning Management Systems (4)
In this course, students will study the practices employed to manage and deliver instructional content in an online environment. Students will interact with a functional Learning Management System (LMS) to manage the design, development, delivery, and evaluation of reusable learning content.
OR IDPT 650 - Evaluation (4)
This course presents fundamental principles and practices for evaluating courses and programs, with a focus on formative and summative evaluation and criterion-referenced testing. Students will explore evaluation models and theories, create a learner satisfaction survey, create criterion-referenced tests, create grading rubrics, and work with a data set to interpret data and make recommendations to improve a course or unit of instruction. Projects completed in the course will become part of the student?s portfolio.
OR IDPT 715 - Theories and Applications for Managing Projects and Relationships (4)
Being able to successfully manage projects and relationships are paramount skills in the current workforce.  In this course, students will study project management theories, tools, and technologies and apply them in their own discipline.  By the end of this course, students need to develop a project management process and a plan to resolve relationship issues.
OR EDUC 613 - Leading Curricular & Instructional Alignment in K-12 Education (4)
This course will focus on the tools that educators need to achieve deep alignment. Effective curriculum design and deep alignment are critical factors in maximizing student achievement. The purpose of the course is to strengthen the knowledge and skills of learners as instructional designers and managers by evaluating models for managing curriculum as they identify and research current and emerging issues in curriculum.












  M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Educator Program Details






			
  Tuition Costs

			




2024 - 2025 Tuition Cost Per CreditStandard tuition per credit hour$670Nursing programsMSN-FNP, MSN-PMHNP, MSN-AGPCNP, Post-Graduate FNP Certificate, Post-Graduate AGPCNP Certificate and Post-Graduate PMHNP Certificate$670MSN-Generalist, MSN-Nurse Administrator and MSN-Nurse Educator$598RN-MSN Pathway (NURS 500)$298Current service members$536Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level)$398Graduate Prerequisite Courses (500 level) - International Students$526







   Know the Total Cost of Your Master’s from Day One
Save yourself the anxiety of annual tuition increases with Franklin’s Tuition Guarantee. The guarantee lets you lock-in what you’ll pay from first-term through graduation, as long as you remain actively enrolled. Not only will this help you maximize funding sources - like employer reimbursement or financial aid, it will keep you focused on earning your degree. 







Learn More









			
  Degree Requirements

			


To be awarded a graduate degree, students must:

Successfully complete all required curriculum courses.
Maintain a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.00.
Complete the residency requirement:
	
M.S. in Nursing-Nurse Educator students must earn 25 of the 37 required credits at Franklin University.


Complete the payment of all requisite tuition and fees;
Not to be under disciplinary dismissal due to academic dishonesty or violation of Student Code of Conduct.

Transfer credit awarded based on experiential learning shall not count toward the residence requirement at Franklin University.






			
  Admission Requirements

			




The admission process reflects Franklin University’s efforts to clearly identify the performance standards that can help predict student success in graduate level study. The selection criterion for Franklin’s graduate programs, as determined by faculty, emphasizes academic ability, contributory work experience, and personal qualities and characteristics.Requirements for admission include having earned a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree or have earned an associate degree/diploma in nursing from an institution accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC), Higher Learning Commission (HLC), Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), New England Commission on Higher Education (NECHE), Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU), Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC), or a Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA)-recognized accrediting organization with at least a 2.75 GPA on a 4.0 scale.Conditional enrollment will be automatically be granted to applicants with a 2.5 GPA or higher. Applicants with a GPA lower than 2.5 GPA can petition to the program chair for conditional enrollment by submitting an essay detailing other criteria that the applicant believes should be considered to demonstrate their ability to be successful in a graduate nursing program.Conditional enrollment requires students to achieve a final grade of “B” (3.0 GPA) or better in the first graduate-level course of their program. If the terms of the conditional enrollment are not met, the student will not be allowed to advance in their program and will be unable to earn this graduate degree from Franklin University. 




Program Prerequisites
Applicants must hold a bachelor's or associate's degree in nursing from a regionally accredited institution. 
Evidence of Active Nursing License
Applicants must have a valid, active and clear/unencumbered RN license in the U.S. or in a jurisdiction that is an associate member of the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCBSN).

Applicants holding the equivalent of an RN licensure or certification outside the U.S. must submit a Credential Evaluation Services (CES) Academic Report from the Council of Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools (CGFNS).
All students must maintain licensure throughout the program of study.
License information should be submitted here.





English Language Testing & TOEFL IELTS
Prospective students must demonstrate English Language Proficiency. The requirement is met through any of the following:

The applicant is a citizen of a country where English is the official language.*
The applicant has received a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an institution located in an English-speaking country in which the courses were taught in English.*
The applicant has earned appropriate scores on language proficiency exams taken within the last two years, as listed in the Academic Catalog.  

*For more information about English proficiency, including a list of English-speaking nations, please visit our International Students section.








			
  Program Specific Requirements

			


Please note: Due to the unique requirements of the MSN practicum experience, students should consult the Nursing MSN Program Handbook for important information on the program’s required practicum component before selecting this major. Applicants must complete and return the Acknowledgement of Receipt of the Handbook form prior to enrolling in the MSN program. For questions regarding the handbook or form, please contact the MSN Program Chair. The handbook and form can be accessed here.






			
  Licensure Disclaimer

			


State Licensure Information
In order to be compliant with federal and state regulations related to distance education and professional licensure programs, not all professional licensure programs are open for enrollment or completion of required clinical experiences in every state or U.S. territory. To see which locations are open for Franklin’s nursing programs, please check the “Program Availability” list at the top of this page, or search by program or location through our Program Availability by Location tool.






			
  Program Learning Outcomes

			


A learning outcome map functions as a roadmap to help guide students' progress through their program of study. Click HERE to view the M.S. in Nursing matrix.






			
  Program Advisory Board

			


The University employs a team approach to planning, developing and maintaining its academic curriculum. An essential element of this process – and a key to the institution’s quality assurance practices – is the Program Advisory Board (and the associated Alumni Advisory Board). A diverse array of business and industry leaders make up these discipline-specific boards that provide guidance on theory-to-practice ideas, global business perspectives, and emerging topics in the field. Each academic year, Program Advisory Boards meet with Division Chairs and faculty for lively and engaged conversations, thus bringing members’ substantial professional experience and expertise into the classroom. In addition, some Division Chairs elect to engage Program Advisory Board members in the assessment of academic program outcomes.






Franklin University Nursing Advisory Board




2021-2022




Name


Title


Company/ Organization




 


 


 




Gordon, Rosetta, BS


Nursing Student Education Coordinator, Patient Family Care Policy Coordinator, professional development


Nationwide Children's 




Habor, Judith, PhD, APRN, FAAN


Professor NYU, Executive Director Oral Health Nursing Education and Practice Program


NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing




Harris, Le-Ann, DNP, RN, NEA-BC


CNO, VP Patient Care


Ohio Health/Grant Medical Center, Grove City Methodist Hospital, Pickerington MC, Westerville MC, and FSED Network




Kelly, Kimberly, BSN, RN, CPN


Alumni; Former member representing Nationwide Children's Hospital


Retired




Kowalesky, Christine, DNP, MHNP-BC


Community resource: Psych NP; Administrator 


Crouse Family Perinatal Anxiety and Depression Community Program




Modan, Falaknaz


FNP Student 


Franklin University




Nibert, Mary, DHA, BSN, MBA, RN


Alumni (BSN and MBA, DHA)


Fairfield Medical Center




Polimeni, Pat Emilie, BSN, MSN, FNP


Alumni (MSN-FNP)


 




Powell, Susan


Director of Nursing Excellence


Dayton Children's




Regis, Kimberly, DNP, RN, NEA-BC, PNP-BC, BCC


VP of Operations; Chief Nurse Executive, ambulatory


Nationwide Children's 




Roepke, Melinda, MSN, R


Dean, Health Sciences, and Director Nursing Programs


North Central State College




Rohr, Tara, DNP, RN


Assistant Professor


Columbus State Community College




Schramm, Jill, DNP, FNP


Assistant Professor, Adjunct


University of Colorado and Franklin University













Employment Outlook





10%


From 2023-2033, jobs  in Nursing are expected to increase by 10%





Occupation
Median Salary (2023)
Job Postings (2023)
Projected Growth (2023-2033)



Occupation



Registered Nurses
$86,070
4,823,198
10%




Registered Nurses
									Median Salary: $86,070

									Job Postings: 4,823,198

									Projected Growth: 10%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionRegistered Nurses assess patient health problems and needs, develop and implement nursing care plans, and maintain medical records. Administer nursing care to ill, injured, convalescent, or disabled patients. May advise patients on health maintenance and disease prevention or provide case management. Licensing or registration required. Includes Clinical Nurse Specialists. Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsRegistered Nurses1,029,00121%Medical Surgical Registered Nurses382,3918%Travel Registered Nurses481,60910%ICU Registered Nurses372,6248%Operating Room Registered Nurses295,2986%Home Health Registered Nurses170,7364%Medical Surgical Travel Registered Nurses221,0225%Emergency Room Registered Nurses131,2613%Telemetry Registered Nurses143,1093%Telemetry Travel Registered Nurses355,1497%Emergency Department Registered Nurses135,2263%Labor and Delivery Registered Nurses190,9354%Oncology Registered Nurses104,5832%Registered Nurse Case Managers92,8782%Hospice Registered Nurses90,1802%PACU Registered Nurses106,0152%Progressive Care Unit Registered Nurses201,2224%NICU Registered Nurses117,4602%Pediatric Registered Nurses102,0782%ICU Travel Registered Nurses100,4212%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNursing1,606,51859%Nursing Care636,89623%Nursing Process388,95014%Medication Administration297,83611%Intensive Care Unit287,12410%Acute Care254,3279%Home Health Care247,4129%Nursing Practices242,8979%Care Coordination218,6298%Medical Surgical Nursing211,6158%Emergency Departments202,6417%Medical Records199,1757%Pediatrics195,9087%Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)195,1697%Direct Patient Care186,3607%Discharge Planning173,6356%Clinical Nursing164,4196%Medical Telemetry161,0296%Patient Education And Counseling156,9566%Computerized Physician Order Entry155,0076%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryGeneral Medical and Surgical Hospitals47%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)7%Offices of Physicians7%Home Health Care Services6%Outpatient Care Centers5%Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)4%Other24% 
Postsecondary Teachers
$83,637
105,818
11%




Postsecondary Teachers
									Median Salary: $83,637

									Job Postings: 105,818

									Projected Growth: 11%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionPostsecondary Teachers aggregate category equivalent to SOC group 25-1000. Teach undergraduate and graduate level courses in their specialized field of study. Include both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of both teaching and research. Alternate titles: College Professor.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsAdjunct Faculties20,60720%Adjunct Instructors7,0397%Assistant Professors10,88310%Assistant/Associate Professors6,6426%Nursing Faculties8,0618%Non-Tenure Track Faculties6,5336%Assistant/Associate/Full Professors4,8425%Nursing Instructors5,1435%Tenure-Track Assistant/Associate Professors3,3813%Assistant Professors of Psychology3,3033%Biology Adjunct Faculties3,0013%Nursing Adjunct Faculties2,9523%Associate Professors3,5723%Driving Instructors3,8984%University Professors1,9332%Tenure-Track Professors2,8743%Adjuncts2,1862%Assistant Professors of Computer Science2,7673%Lecturers3,6343%Open Rank Faculties2,5672%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsCurriculum Development26,98012%Nursing21,39010%Pedagogy15,4737%Learning Management Systems14,7247%Biology13,5246%Psychology12,4256%Computer Science12,3226%Syllabus Development11,8475%Statistics11,3765%Student Engagement11,2675%Online Teaching11,2305%Social Sciences10,8415%Lecturing10,4215%Health Sciences9,6814%Educational Assessment9,3074%Academic Advising9,1714%Distance Learning9,1704%Marketing9,0674%Clinical Experience8,6284%Talent Management8,4794%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryEducation and Hospitals (State Government)44%Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools36%Education and Hospitals (Local Government)15%Technical and Trade Schools3%Junior Colleges1%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals1%Other2% 
Licensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses
$59,738
977,050
9%




Licensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses
									Median Salary: $59,738

									Job Postings: 977,050

									Projected Growth: 9%


OccupationJob TitlesSkillsIndustryDescriptionLicensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses care for ill, injured, or convalescing patients or persons with disabilities in hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, private homes, group homes, and similar institutions. May work under the supervision of a registered nurse. Licensing required.Projected GrowthJob TitleJob Postings% of Job PostingsLicensed Practical Nurses499,54351%Licensed Vocational Nurses110,18211%Registered Nurses/Licensed Practical Nurses56,0316%Home Health Licensed Practical Nurses49,7255%Licensed Practical Nurses/Licensed Vocational Nurses47,3645%Private Duty Licensed Practical Nurses39,2004%Registered Nurses/Licensed Practical Nurses/Certified Nursing Assistants27,1153%Hospice Licensed Practical Nurses17,1732%Medical Assistants/Licensed Practical Nurses11,7681%Licensed Practical Nurses/Paramedics/Registered Nurses16,5572%Home Care Licensed Practical Nurses13,0421%Medical Surgical Registered Nurses10,0461%Long Term Care Licensed Practical Nurses/Licensed Vocational Nurses20,5892%Medical Licensed Practical Nurses7,3411%Correctional Licensed Vocational Nurses11,3691%Clinic Licensed Practical Nurses7,4091%Skilled Nursing Facility Licensed Practical Nurses12,0511%Long Term Care Registered Nurses8,1261%Assisted Living Licensed Practical Nurses7,3331%Travel Licensed Practical Nurses5,0861%Show MoreSkillJob Postings% of Total PostingsNursing247,17357%Nursing Care106,18925%Medication Administration93,63922%Vital Signs76,80718%Home Health Care63,91115%Medical Records53,97813%Computerized Physician Order Entry45,35711%Intravenous Therapy39,7759%Long-Term Care38,9159%Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)38,4779%Nursing Process32,2097%Infection Control32,0127%Pediatrics30,2857%Nursing Homes29,4487%Care Coordination28,1537%Direct Patient Care25,1386%Treatment Planning24,2616%Acute Care24,1116%Patient Education And Counseling23,7606%Rehabilitation23,1475%Show More Industry% of Occupation in IndustryNursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)27%Home Health Care Services12%Offices of Physicians12%General Medical and Surgical Hospitals10%Continuing Care Retirement Communities and Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly7%Outpatient Care Centers5%Other28% 


Source: Employment Outlook data is provided by Lightcast. Franklin University cannot guarantee employment placement, salary level, or career advancement.





  Nurse Educator Knowledge & Skillsets



Gain in-demand skills sought by employers with curriculum that teaches you:



			
  Nursing Research & Education

			



Use current research to improve nursing practice and to guide the development of standards for nursing care
Provide education, training and in-service opportunities to nursing staff regarding patient care, clinical findings, survey preparedness and areas of concern
Develop, assess and maintain nursing education that supports and promotes quality improvement
Identify and research opportunities to improve care and implement aligned programs 
Create lesson plans that accomplish predefined learning goals
Stay up-to-date on the latest advances in medicine and changes to best-practice standards for patient care







			
  Health Policy & Procedures

			



Review policies, handbooks, strategic plans, operating plans and contracts
Provide accurate consultation and interpretations of governmental regulations applicable to nursing services and activities
Identify and evaluate areas of concern pursuant to quality nursing care as it relates to state and federal regulations
Provide education and in-service training on topics to include but not limited to techniques, procedures, regulations, company policies and other information
Collaborate with nursing leadership to coordinate and implement nursing guidelines, clinical program initiatives and processes and monitor outcomes







			
  Leadership & Advocacy

			



Lead by advocating for nursing education, promoting the nursing profession and influencing policy development. 
Provide professional nursing expertise in the assessment of patient needs, development of action plans, aiding in goal accomplishment and monitoring progress 
Provide information, instruction and direction to nursing staff to ensure the best possible level of care to patients
Assess the knowledge, skills, techniques, procedures and performance of the nursing staff and personnel
Work collaboratively with physician leadership to maintain values and goals in daily operations 
Create an environment that supports the professional practice of nursing







			
  Instructional Design 

			



Leverage learning theories and instructional design methodologies to design, implement and evaluate instructional solutions
Design instructional solutions for documented individual and organizational learning issues
Develop instructional design solutions that are consistent with accepted professional and ethical standards
Enhance learning and collaboration in instructional environments by integrating new and emerging technologies









  The Clinical Experience







  Meet Your [Clinical] Match
Clinical rotations play a critical role in preparing you to excel as nurse practitioner. Learn how we will support your search and what you can do to personalize the experience to meet your personal and professional needs. Info for Students










  MSN Degree-Nurse Educator Track Frequently Asked Questions






		What is an online master’s in nursing education?
		


A master’s in nursing education (MSN-Nurse Educator) is a professional degree that prepares registered nurses to provide instruction and clinical training in an academic or healthcare setting. 




		What can you do with a Master of Science in Nursing Education?
		


As an MSN-prepared nurse with expertise in nursing education, you’ll be equipped to impact the U.S. nursing shortage by training new nurses that retire or leave the profession. With Franklin’s Master of Science in Nursing Education, you’ll be qualified for in-demand roles as a nurse educator, clinical educator, curriculum designer or instructional designer.




		Why get a master’s degree in nursing education?
		


With a master’s degree in nursing education, you'll blend advanced nursing theory and evidence-based practice with industry-aligned courses in instructional design, curriculum design and learning assessment. Franklin’s CCNE-accredited MSN degree prepares you to assume advanced roles and responsibilities in the increasingly in-demand field of nursing education in as few as 18 months. 




		What makes Franklin’s online nurse educator master’s program unique?
		


Franklin’s online nurse educator master’s program is an 18-month program that blends online coursework with an on-site practicum to meet the needs of busy RNs. Franklin’s program blends comprehensive advanced nursing theory and practice with industry-leading instructional design strategies and techniques.




		When can I start Franklin’s MSN-Nurse Educator?
		


Choose from three start dates each year – fall (August), spring (January) or summer (May).




		How much will my Master of Science in Nursing Education cost?
		


Franklin University offers a quality education at a competitive cost so you can afford to invest in your future. Our per credit hour tuition rates (vs. per year or per term rates) enable you to get a realistic estimate of exactly how much your degree will cost. Our 2024-2025 tuition rate is $598 per credit hour. Use Franklin’s free MyCost Estimator to get a personalized estimate of your total degree cost. If you have any questions, ask our helpful staff about available financing options and financial aid programs.




		How long does it take to get an MSN-Nurse Educator? 
		


Franklin's accredited nursing degree programs are specifically designed for busy, working RNs -- that means you could finish your MSN-Nurse Educator degree in as few as 18 months.


See All >




Back to College Blog




What Is an MSN-FNP: 8 Big Questions Answered



What Can I Do with an MSN-FNP Degree?



Types of MSN Specialties: What Can I Pursue?



Should I Do RN To BSN or RN To MSN?



Is an MSN-FNP Worth It?










Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us

FranklinWORKS Marketplace



Safety & Security


Policy Information


Your Privacy Settings


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Careers At Franklin


Sitemap




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Franklin University201 S Grant Ave.Columbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 797-4700

          Toll Free: (877) 341-6300
          
          admissions@franklin.edu
        




Copyright 2024 Franklin University




Franklin University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (hlcommission.org/800.621.7440) and authorized by the Ohio Department of Higher Education.
Franklin University is committed to being an inclusive community free from all forms of discrimination and harassment.



 




(877) 341-6300 Apply NowRequest Info







Degrees


Program Finder


Bachelor's Degrees


Accounting


Analytics


Applied Data Science


Business Analytics


Healthcare Analytics




Applied Management


Business Administration


Business Forensics


Cloud Computing


Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Education


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Education Studies


Intervention Specialist


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)


Primary Education (PK-5)




Exercise Science


Financial Management


Financial Planning


Forensic Accounting


Healthcare Administration


Human Resources Management


Information Systems


Analytics


Business Analysis & Project Management


Business Information Systems


Healthcare Information Systems




Information Technology


Management & Leadership


Marketing


Nursing (RN-BSN)


Operations & Supply Chain Management


Psychology


Public Health


Public Safety Management & Leadership


Social Sciences


Sport Management


User Experience & Graphic Design




Master's Degrees


Accounting


M.S. in Accounting - Financial Operations Focus


M.S. in Accounting - Taxation Focus


M.S. in Accounting (non-Accounting background)




Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Communications


M.S. in Communications-Health Communication


M.S. in Communications-Strategic Communication




Computer Science


M.S. in Computer Science - General


M.S. in Computer Science - Cybersecurity Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Data Analytics Focus


M.S. in Computer Science - Software Systems Focus


M.S. in Computer Science (non-Computer Science background)




Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Education


M.Ed. - Higher Education Leadership


M.Ed. - K-12 Building Level Leadership


M.Ed. - Principal Licensure




Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - General


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Human Resources


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Operational Excellence


Healthcare Administration (MHA) - Organizational Leadership




Human Resource Management


Information Systems


Information Technology


M.S. in Information Technology - Cybersecurity


M.S. in Information Technology - Data Analytics


M.S. in Information Technology - Healthcare


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Leadership


M.S. in Information Technology - IT Management


M.S. in Information Technology - Learning Technology




Instructional Design & Learning Technology


MBA Programs


MBA-General


MBA-Business Analytics


MBA-Business Psychology


MBA-Finance


MBA-Healthcare


MBA-Human Resources


MBA-Information Technology


MBA-Marketing


MBA-Operational Excellence


MBA-Organizational Leadership


MBA-STEM




MSN Programs


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Nurse Educator


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


RN to MSN




Professional Sales Leadership


Public Administration (MPA)


Public Administration-General


Public Administration-Criminal Justice


Public Administration-Healthcare


Public Administration-Human Resources


Public Administration-Organizational Leadership






Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D)


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Curriculum & Instruction


Instructional Design Leadership (Ed.D.) - Educational Technology




Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Higher Education Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - Organizational Leadership Focus


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.) - PK-12 Educational Leadership Focus




Nursing (DNP)


DNP - Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Family Nurse Practitioner Track


DNP - Leadership Track


DNP - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track


BSN to DNP Option






Associate Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration


A.A.S. Business Administration


A.S. Business Administration




Communications


Computer Science


Criminal Justice


Cybersecurity


Financial Management


Forensic Accounting


Health Services


IT-Project Management


Information Technology


Public Safety




Online Degrees


Online Learning at Franklin


Accounting Programs


Business & Leadership Programs


Computer Science Programs


Criminal Justice & Public Safety Programs


Cybersecurity Programs


Data & Analytics Programs


Education Programs


Finance Programs


Healthcare Programs


Human Resources Programs


Information Technology Programs


Marketing & Communications Programs


Nursing Programs


Operations & Project Management Programs


Psychology Programs


Public & Social Sciences Programs


Online Learning Facts




Degrees By Location


Degrees By College


College of Arts, Sciences & Technology


College of Health & Public Administration


International Institute For Innovative Instruction


Ross College of Business


School of Education


School of Nursing




Minors


Bachelor’s & Master’s Combined Programs


Degree Completion Programs


Second Bachelor's Degrees




Microcredentials & Certificates


Microcredentials


Undergraduate Certificates


Accounting Data Analytics




Graduate Certificates


Cyber Defense


Cyber Governance


Criminal Justice Leadership


Data Analytics


Nurse Educator


Instructional Design




Post-Graduate Certificates


Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Family Nurse Practitioner


Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner




Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification


Adolescence to Young Adult Education (7-12)


Primary Education (PK-5)


Intervention Specialist: Mild/Moderate (K-12)


Middle Childhood Education (4-9)




Advanced Accounting Microcredential




Admissions


Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Partnership Students


International Students


Study in the U.S.


Earn Your Degree Online




Community College Students


College Credit Plus


Military & Veterans


Active Duty


Air Force


Army


Coast Guard


Marines


Navy




Veterans


Montgomery GI Bill® - Selected Reserves


Montgomery GI Bill®


Post-9/11 GI Bill®


Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Spouses & Family




Online Open House


Admission Requirements


Associate Degrees


Bachelor's Degrees


General Bachelor's Degree


Nursing (RN-BSN)




Master's Degrees


Accounting


Business Administration (MBA)


Business Analytics


Business Psychology


Computer Science


Criminal Justice Administration


Cybersecurity


Data Analytics


Health Informatics


Healthcare Administration (MHA)


Human Resource Management


Information Technology


Instructional Design & Learning Technology


Nurse Administrator (MSN-ADM)


Nursing-Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner


Nursing-Family Nurse Practitioner (MSN-FNP)


Nursing-Generalist (MSN)


Nursing-Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner


Public Administration




Doctoral Degrees


Business Administration (DBA)


Healthcare Administration (DHA)


Instructional Design Leadership (DPS)


Nursing Practice-Family Nurse Practitioner (DNP-FNP)


Nursing Practice-Leadership Track (DNP)


Organizational Leadership (Ed.D.)




Graduate Certificates


Criminal Justice Leadership


Instructional Design








Tuition & Financial Aid


Tuition & Fees


Cost Estimate Calculator Tool


Tuition Guarantee


Undergrad Tuition Comparison


Federal Aid & State Aid


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Applying for Aid


Community College Students


Scholarships


Payment Options


Financial Aid Resources




Transferring Credit


Estimate Your Transfer Credit


How to Transfer Credits


Types of Transfer Credit


Previously Earned College Credit


Certificates + Professional Training Credit


Military Training Credit


Testing Credit




Transferring from a Community College


Partner Schools


Pathway Portal




Transfer into a Bachelor’s Degree


Transfer into a Master’s Degree


Transfer into a Doctoral Degree


Transfer into an Associate Degree




The Franklin Experience


Built For Working Adults


Transfer Friendly


Accredited University & Quality Degrees


Fast & Affordable


Student Success Stories


Valued By Employers


Nonprofit


Student Support


Career Development




About Us


Locations


Ohio


Columbus






Partnerships


College Credit Plus Partnerships


Become a Partner


Current Partners


Teachers




Community College Partnerships


Career Advancement Program


Benefits for Community Colleges


Benefits for Businesses






Employer Partnerships


Global Partnerships


Solutions


Case Studies


Al Baha University


MCBS


Saudi Electronic University




Current Partnerships




Medical School Partnerships


Nurse Preceptor


Ohio School District Partnerships




Faculty & Staff


Board of Trustees


University Leadership


University Directory


Faculty Profiles


President's Welcome


Admission Advisors




University Details


Accreditation


CCNE Accreditation


IACBE Accreditation




State Authorization & Professional Licensure Information


Our Mission & Values


The Four Cornerstones


Our History


Consumer Information


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Assessment


Map & Directions




Franklin Pressroom


COVID-19 Updates


Students


Faculty & Staff


Future Students




Events


News


Request an Expert


Presentations & Awards


Faculty Awards and Recognitions


Speakers' Bureau


Event Hosting




Policy Information


Title IX


Discrimination Harassment & Sexual Misconduct


Anti-Hazing Policy


Drug Free School & Communities Act


Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team


Filing Complaints


Office of Academic Scholarship


Institutional Review Board (IRB)


Application & Review Process


Cayuse


CITI Training


Research Review Categories


Committee & Policies


Documents, Resources & FAQs




Research at Franklin University


Programs & Support


Resources


Research Opportunities


About Us




Office of Accessibility Services


Combating Copyright Infringement


Financial Aid Statement


Influenza Information


Information Technology Acceptable Use


Notice of Privacy Rights (FERPA)


Privacy Statement


Student Parking


Tuition Refund Policy


Vaccinations


Inclement Weather Policy


Transfer Credit Policy & Procedures




Community Engagement


Request Your Franklin Transcripts


Urbana University Resources


Give to Franklin






I AM A:



Future Student


Potential Partner


Current Student


Franklin Alumni


Potential Donor



SHORTCUTS:



myFranklin


Locations


Online Degrees


Degree Programs


Documents & Forms


FAQS


University Directory


News


Blog




Associated Sites



FranklinWORKS Marketplace


Franklin University Store & Apparel


International Institute for Innovative Instruction


Leadership Center


Global Center for Healthcare Education


Center for Public Safety & Cybersecurity Education


Best Adult Colleges & Careers Guide


Accounting MVP Blog


Data & Analytics MVP Blog