URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/student-services/office-accessibility-services
Disability Services | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) 

Home
                /  
                                              Student Services
                /  
                                              Office of Accessibility Services
                          

  Office of Accessibility Services (OAS)



Franklin University recognizes the needs of students with disabilities and is committed to providing accessible services, programs, and educational opportunities. In addition to accessible facilities, the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) is available to provide reasonable accommodations, guidance, and additional resources.

If you are a qualified student or prospective student who has a disability as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or the guidelines for Section 504 of the Federal Rehabilitation Act, it is suggested that you register with the Office of Accessibility Services.

We work closely with faculty and the Learning Commons Tutoring and Testing Offices in personalizing accommodations and services to meet the individual needs of each qualified student. 
Please follow the guidelines below to register with the Office of Accessibility Services and request accommodations for your disability/disabilities.  Submitted information should be current and from a medical provider who is familiar with your disability. After you and your medical provider have completed and returned the required documentation, you will be notified by the Accessibility Services Coordinator of any approved accommodations.
For more information, or to schedule an appointment, please contact the Accessibility Services Coordinator at 614-797-4700 or by email at accommodate@franklin.edu. 









  Important Information





			
  OAS - Registration Information

			


HOW TO REGISTERTo register with the Office of Accessibility Services and request accommodations for your disability/disabilities, please complete the application/medical verification form. After you have submitted the form, the Accessibility Services Coordinator will notify you of any approved accommodations. Please view this video for a demonstration.Schedule an appointment with the Accessibility Services Coordinator here.GUIDELINES FOR REQUESTING ACCESSIBILITY SERVICESPlease follow the guidelines below to register with the Office of Accessibility Services and request accommodations for your disability/disabilities.  Submitted information should be current and from a medical provider who is familiar with your disability. After you and your medical provider have completed and returned the required documentation, you will be notified by the Accessibility Services Coordinator of any approved accommodations.1. Documentation of your disabilityYour documentation should include, but not limited to:Diagnosis, tests and results that confirm this diagnosis, and physician's last date of contact with youFunctional limitations or symptoms associated with this conditionDescription of how this condition may affect you academically and/or physicallyRecommendations for accommodations (i.e. extended test time) and rationale for these accommodations Severity and/or expected progression of this disability2. Register for classes with your Academic AdvisorIf accommodations such as interpreters or CPrint are needed for meeting with your academic advisor, contact the Accessibility Services Coordinator. Students who wish to receive accommodations are encouraged to register for classes as early as possible to allow adequate time to arrange support services and accommodations.3. Arrange a Strong Start appointment with the Accessibility Services Coordinator to go over your schedule of classes, available resources,  and discuss approved accommodations.This should be done as early as possible to ensure that we can set up accommodations before you start your courses. For more information, or to schedule an appointment, please contact the Accessibility Services Coordinator at 614-797-4700 or by email at accommodate@franklin.edu






			
  OAS Definitions

			


Definition of a Disability A person has a disability if he or she has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more “major life activities.” Major life activities include functions such as walking, seeing, hearing, breathing, learning, working, caring for oneself, and performing manual tasks. 
Diagnosis by a Qualified Professional Students requesting services should provide information of their disability by a qualified professional. A “qualified professional” has significant experience diagnosing and/or treating a given disorder. The information should provide a diagnosis of the type of disability and a specific description of how the disability interferes with educational achievement. 
Confidentiality Statement Disability information is shared only on a limited basis within the University and only when there is compelling need to communicate with faculty and staff in order to achieve implementation of reasonable accommodations. 
Self-identification of a Disability To be eligible for accommodations, you must self-identify as a person with a disability or impairment to the Office of Accessibility Services. Disclosure of this information is voluntary, and no adverse consequences will result from providing this information. 
Disability/Impairment Guidelines If the information on the submitted form is incomplete or inadequate, you may be required to provide additional information. You are responsible for any costs associated with obtaining documentation. Accommodations are determined on a case-by-case basis, depending on the nature of the disability and the information provided.








  How to Register With the Office Accessibility Services






How to Register with the Office of Accessibility Services from Franklin University on Vimeo.







  Success Strategies 





			
  Success Strategies for Students with Disabilities

			



Seek out help when you need it. 
	Support from others is key to success. Don't get discouraged; speak with your Academic Advisor for help in picking classes, then create a study schedule. Communicating directly with your instructors is an important part of a successful academic career at Franklin University. Not only will one-on-one meetings help you to get the most out of the academic opportunities available to you, but they also give you the chance to clearly convey your particular accommodation needs. 
	 
Map out how you will use your time. 
	With more unscheduled time, it can be easy to fall behind in coursework. Find a time management tool that's easy and convenient for you, like a daily planner or a PDA, and set aside 15 minutes daily to map out your day. Be realistic about the time your tasks will take, and remember to schedule in breaks and adequate sleep.
	 
Plan ahead, especially for final projects and tests that are a big part of your grade.
	Break down assignments into smaller, more manageable chunks, using the syllabus that the professor has given you. For example, if you know reading a chapter takes you several hours, break it into sections and plan to read in chunks.
	 
Organize your study space.
	Clutter at your desk makes it tough to work. Make a task list of the things you need to get done and keep it in your work space. Develop study routines so that your study habits are conducive to learning. 
	 
Start early.
	Fear of failure or feeling overwhelmed are some of the main reasons that students procrastinate. If you have difficulty getting started, don't be afraid to talk to the professor. They can help you outline realistic steps toward beginning and completing your work.
	 
 Identify problems that repeatedly get in your way. 
	If you're feeling frustrated, try to figure out why you are feeling that way and how you can problem-solve. Some questions you can ask yourself: "Am I frustrated because my disability sometimes requires me to work harder than other students? Do I need a study buddy? Should I work on this course in smaller bites because it's so difficult for me?"







			
  Success Strategies for Instructors Working with Students with Disabilities 

			



Keep the Lines of Communication Open.
	Dialogue between students with disabilities and their instructors is essential early in the term, and follow-up meetings are recommended. Faculty should not feel apprehensive about discussing students’ needs as they relate to the course.
	 
Facilitate Access not Necessarily Success. 
	The objective of academic adjustments is always to accommodate the student’s disability and not to dilute scholastic requirements. The purpose of any accommodation is to facilitate access and not student success.
	 
Universal Design in Education. 

“The design of products and environments to be usable by all students, to the greatest extent possible, without the need for adaptation or specialized design.” Proactively creating and promoting a more accessible and inclusive Franklin University environment that offers access as part of the natural educational experience.
Disabled individuals must be able to: 

Engage in the same activities
Access the same information; and
Enjoy the same services and benefits as a person without a disability

This access must occur:

In an equally effective and integrated manner
With substantially equivalent ease of use; and
Free of discrimination
	 






Franklin University does not discriminate on the basis of age, religion, race, ethnicity, color, national origin, ancestry, immigration status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital or familial status, disability, or veteran or military status. For inquiries about the University’s non-discrimination policies, please contact the Equity and Title IX Coordinator, Brandon Perry at 614-947-6913 or TitleIX@franklin.edu. 









Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms