URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/academic-resources/registration
Registering for Classes | Franklin.edu



















Registration 

Home
                /  
                                              Academic Resources
                /  
                                              Registration
                          

  Registering for Classes is Easy



Get ready for registration by reviewing upcoming registration periods, how to plan & schedule your courses, and more below!




Contact Academic Advising



			
  Email

			


Undergraduate students: advising@franklin.eduGraduate & Doctoral students: graduate.advising@franklin.eduMilitary & Veteran students: omva@franklin.edu 











  Spring 2025
Registration now open!Classes Begin January 6th



  Summer 2025
Registration opens February 24th.Classes begin May 19th.



  Fall 2025
Registration opens June 16thClasses begin August 18th.











  Quick Links




View 2024 Academic Calendar
View Course Schedule
Self-Service








  Plan & Schedule Your Courses




Self-RegisterSelf-register through Student Planning until 5 days before the start of the course.Ready to Plan & Schedule Your Courses?Review offerings on the course scheduleAdd courses to your planSelect specific course sections for planned courses in the upcoming term Register planned courses by clicking “Register Now” blue buttonIf you need assistance navigating Student Planning, please review this tutorial or our Student Planning workshop. If you need assistance with registration, please contact your academic advisor.Already Planned Your Courses?Planned courses are not automatically registered. You must select a section of the course you plan to take and click “Register Now” once registration for the term opens.If you need assistance on registering already planned courses, please review this tutorial. If you need assistance with registration, please contact your academic advisor. Set up an Academic Advising AppointmentSchedule a registration appointment with your academic advisor. Advisor appointment calendars fill up quickly during peak advising periods. You can schedule your registration appointment up to four months in advance.Email Academic AdvisingIf you need assistance with registration, please contact your academic advisor using your Franklin email address. All registration requests must come from your Franklin email.







  Know Your Finances




File your 2024-2025 FAFSA if you plan to use financial aid in Summer 2024, Fall 2024 and/or Spring 2025.Review your current costs in Student Finance. Students with financial balances cannot register for future term courses. If you have a balance, make a full payment or set up a payment plan. Payment plans must be paid in full by the start of the upcoming term.For questions about financial aid, payment options, or balances, contact Student Financial Services at sfs@franklin.edu or 877.341.6300, option 2.For questions about military or VA educational benefits, email omva@franklin.edu.







  Taking a Break from Courses




We understand students may need to take a break from their Franklin courses. If you plan to take courses at your community college or need to take a trimester off from school, please let your academic advisor know of your plans.Students will receive registration reminders prior to the start of a new trimester until they have registered for courses OR indicated a break term.Students can take a break from their Franklin courses for three consecutive trimesters before needing to re-apply to the University.







  Additional Information





			
  Audit Courses

			


No credit is given for audited courses. Each auditor must do all the work required of a student enrolled in the course for credit, except take examinations. Fees and tuition for auditing are the same as those charged when courses are taken for credit. Audit status must be indicated in writing to the Office of Student Services no later than the end of the first week of the session in which the class is to be audited.






			
  Cross-Registration

			


Franklin University participates in a cross-registration system with the other colleges and universities in the Higher Education Council of Columbus (HECC). These institutions are Capital University, The Columbus College of Art and Design, Columbus State Community College, DeVry University (Columbus, Ohio location only), Ohio Dominican University, The Ohio State University, Otterbein University, and the Pontifical College Josephinum.
Cross-registration allows full-time students at Franklin University to register for enrichment classes at other HECC institutions. Students will register, pay tuition and receive grades at Franklin University. To participate, undergraduate students must have earned at least 24 credit hours at Franklin University and must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.00. Course selection is limited to one per trimester and may not be more than a total of three per lifetime. Also, students may not cross-register for a course that is available at Franklin University. Cross-registration is not permitted during Summer Trimester.
Students must meet with the Registrar to make arrangements to cross-register.






			
  Enrollment Verification

			


Upon receipt of a Certification Letter request form, the Registrar's Office will notify a student's employer, by letter, that the student has enrolled for a trimester or has completed a trimester's work. 






			
  Withdrawing From a Course

			


Students wishing to withdraw from a course must either utilize their personalized Web page, my.franklin.edu, or submit an Add/Drop Form. After the first week of class, a withdrawal will result in a grade of “W” (Withdrawn) on the student’s academic record but will not be calculated in the grade point average. Tuition charges and/or refunds will be based on the date the student submits an Add/Drop Form to the University. The deadline for a student to withdraw from a class is the Sunday prior to the last scheduled week of class.
A student who either never attends or participates, or stops attending or participating in a class but fails to submit an Add/Drop Form to withdraw is obligated for full tuition and will receive a grade (possibly a failing grade of “Z”) from the instructor based on all work assigned and/or completed.
Based on evidence of excessive absence, non-participation, or missed exams as defined in the course syllabus, a faculty member may initiate a student’s withdrawal through the Registrar’s Office. The Financial Aid Office also may request the Registrar to withdraw a student for non-attendance or non-participation. In either case, the tuition and payment policy will be applied.
Financial Aid Consequences
Students receiving any type of financial aid may lose part or all of such assistance if they stop attending or stop participating, or withdraw from one or more courses in any one trimester. Any over-award that results from withdrawing, nonattendance, or non-participation must be repaid before further financial assistance may be received. In considering whether or not to withdraw from, stop attending, or stop participating in a course, students receiving financial aid should first consult with the Financial Aid office.






			
  University Withdrawal Policy

			


Students voluntarily withdrawing from Franklin University (withdrawal from all of their active courses) must initiate the withdrawal process by completing the online “Withdrawal from All Active Courses” form. Upon completion of this form, students will be contacted by a University representative to confirm their intention to withdraw, verify their understanding of any potential academic and/or financial consequences, and affirm that the University has done everything it can to assist them in continuing their studies. Students who cannot be reached will be administratively withdrawn. The date used to process the withdrawal will be the date that the online form is submitted. Withdrawal requests must be initiated by completing the online form; no paper withdrawal forms, voicemail messages or email requests will be accepted.
Students withdrawing from one or some of their active courses, rather than all courses, can do so by accessing the Student Planning tool through Self Service or by submitting an Add/Drop form. However, before dropping courses, students receiving financial aid should consult with the Financial Aid Office. Students receiving any type of financial aid may lose part or all of their financial assistance if they stop attending, withdraw from a course, or withdraw from all active courses in any one trimester. Non-attendance in class is not to be assumed as constituting formal withdrawal from the University. Grade designation is determined by the policies in effect at the time of the student’s withdrawal. Students voluntarily withdrawing from the institution amidst a pending conduct resolution for violent acts will have that noted on their transcript.
When students withdraw from one or more courses, they may be entitled to a tuition refund. Franklin University provides detailed tuition refund tables for changes to students’ schedules.











Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms