URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/military-veterans/resources
Military & Veteran Resources | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Military & Veteran Resources 

Home
                /  
                                              Military & Veterans
                /  
                                              Resources
                          

  Military & Veteran Student Resources



You have interests and responsibilities inside -- and outside -- the classroom. At Franklin, we want to support your educational goals, as well as your other interests. Let our Office of Military and Veteran Affairs (OMVA) connect you with civic organizations and national resources for military service members, veterans and family members. 




OMVA Office Information



			
  Contact Us

			


Phone: 614.797.4700 
Fax: 614.255.9514 
omva@franklin.edu
Paul J. Otte Center for Student Services
331 E. Rich St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215






			
  Office Hours

			


Monday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Thursday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed












  Other Resources




From campus events and programs to government-sponsored benefit programs, here’s where you can find more information, including how to get in touch.
Don't see what you're looking for?
Email us: omva@franklin.edu.





			
  FUSVA - chapter of Student Veterans of America (SVA)

			


The purpose of the Franklin University Student Veteran’s Alliance (FUSVA) is to provide military veterans and their families with resources, support and assistance in transition to both higher education at Franklin and the local community.
The goals of FUSVA are to:

Promote communication and interaction among veterans in order to encourage veterans helping veterans.
Sponsor organizational operations that promote veterans helping veterans and social events and networking opportunities that include family, loved ones, and veteran supporters.
Educate the surrounding communities about the special experiences, circumstances, strengths, and needs of military veterans and their families.
Work with the university administration to meet the needs of student veterans.
Provide outreach programs to potential student veterans.
Work with the community and campus veteran service organizations through the Student Veterans of America.

FUSVA is a chapter member of Student Veterans of America. Join now and contribute to this organization! You have the opportunity to impact your fellow student veterans at Franklin and in the local community.
For more information or to express your interest in joining, email sva@franklin.edu






			
  United States Department of Veteran Affairs

			


The United States Department of Veteran Affairs mission is to “To fulfill President Lincoln's promise ‘To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan’ by serving and honoring the men and women who are America’s veterans.”
For information on national news, events, special programs and government initiatives for veterans, please visit the United States Department of Veteran Affairs’ website.






			
  Veterans Crisis Line

			


The Veterans Crisis Line connects Veterans in crisis and their families and friends with qualified, caring Department of Veterans Affairs responders through a confidential toll-free hotline, online chat, or text. Veterans and their loved ones can call 1-800-273-8255 and Press 1, chat online, or send a text message to 838255 to receive confidential support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
Learn to Recognize the Signs
More Information






			
  Ohio Department of Veteran Services

			


The mission of The Ohio Department of Veteran Services is “to actively identify, connect with, and advocate for veterans & their families” with the vision to “make Ohio a place where our past & present military want to call home”.  The department offers veterans a wide range of support, including benefits counseling services, education, employment services and financial assistance. For information on these and other services provided, including information for your county veteran services office, please visit the Ohio Department of Veteran Services website.
Do you have questions about your veteran benefits? Call 1-877-OHIO VET (1-877-644-6838)
Ohio Department of Veteran Services
77 South High Street
7th Floor
Columbus, Ohio 43215
614-644-0898 | 888-DVS-OHIO (888-387-7317)
ohiovet@dvs.ohio.gov
dvs.ohio.gov






			
  Ohio Department of Job and Family Services

			


To help Ohio’s families find solutions to their temporary challenges, the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services offers a wide range of assistance. Services include unemployment compensation, health care, cash assistance, food assistance, child care, child support enforcement and administration, and employment and training assistance. For more information about these services and how to access them, please visit their website.
Resources by County
Are you a veteran? As part of their implementation of the Jobs for Veterans Act, the Ohio Department of Job and Family services has developed policies and programs to alleviate unemployment and underemployment for veterans and other eligible persons.
More Information
Ohio Department of Job and Family Services
30 East Broad Street
Columbus, Ohio 43215
jfs.ohio.gov






			
  Chalmers P. Wylie VA Ambulatory Care Center

			


The Chalmers P. Wylie VA Ambulatory Care Center provides veterans with a continuum of healthcare including surgery, diagnostics, fitness and rehabilitation. In addition to the main facility, they have community-based outpatient clinics in Grove City, OH., Marion, OH, Newark, OH, and Zanesville, OH.
Chalmers P. Wylie VA Ambulatory Care Center
420 N. James Rd
Columbus, OH 43219
614-257-5200 | 888-615-9448
www.columbus.va.gov






			
  Military OneSource

			


Military OneSource is a free service provided by the Department of Defense to service members and their families to help with a broad range of concerns including money management, spouse employment and education, parenting and child care, relocation, deployment, reunion, and the particular concerns of families with special-needs members. They can also include more complex issues like relationships, stress, and grief. Services are available 24 hours a day — by telephone and online. Many Military OneSource staff members have military experience (veterans, spouses, Guardsmen, Reservists), and all receive ongoing training on military matters and military lifestyle. The program can be especially helpful to service members and their families who live at a distance from installations.
Military OneSource is provided by the Department of Defense at no cost to active duty, Guard and Reserve (regardless of activation status) and their families. It is a virtual extension of installation services. Visit Military OneSource today at or call 1-800-342-9647.






			
  MilitaryVALoan.com

			


MilitaryVALoan.com is a free resource for military veterans researching VA home loans and other mortgage related benefits available to them. It is an independently owned, non-government site offering up-to-date information on current VA mortgage rates, purchase and refinance guides, eligibility information, energy efficiency opportunities, and more.






			
  Military.com

			


Military.com's free membership connects servicemembers, military families and veterans to all the benefits of service — government benefits, scholarships, discounts, lifelong friends, mentors, great stories of military life or missions, and much more.
Interesting Facts:

Military.com has 10 million members.
Search over 20 million records for military buddies with Buddy Finder.
Search over 35,000 unit pages, find reunions and correspond with old friends.
Search our database of over 4,000 institutions, and find your school now with School Finder.
Search over 1,000 scholarships, and find millions of dollars with Scholarship Finder.

To learn more about Military.com and become a member for free, visit Military.com.
The Spouse Channel
Military.com has a site devoted to spouses of military servicemembers. Find resources and information in areas such as deployment, relocation, benefits, careers and social networking all from the perspective of a military spouse. Membership is free!
Learn More






			
  Peterson's Online Academic Skills Course (OASC)

			


Would you like to improve your educational skills? Peterson’s Online Academic Skills Course (OASC) for Military Success is designed for individuals in the U.S. military who want to build their reading comprehension, vocabulary, and math skills to pass their exams, excel in their jobs, advance their careers, or continue their education.

A Pre-Assessment will gauge your strengths and areas for improvement
With the Customize Learning Path, you will receive a person set of lessons based on your pre-assessment
The Lessons will engage you with interactive activities, flash cards, quizzes and practice sets
The Post-Assessment will evaluate your progress and gauge your learning

OASC is available for free 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on the web to servicemembers, reservists, National Guard members, civilian employees and their families. For more information and to get started, visit NelnetSolutions.com






			
  CareerOneStop

			


CareerOneStop is…

Your source for employment information and inspiration
The place to manage your career
Your pathway to career success
Tools to help job seekers, students, businesses and career professionals
Sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor
 

CareerOneStop products include:

America’s Service Locator connects individuals to employment and training opportunities available at local One-Stop Career Centers. The website provides contact information for a range of local work-related services, including unemployment benefits, career development, and educational opportunities.
America’s Career InfoNet helps individuals explore career opportunities to make informed employment and education choices. The website features user-friendly occupation and industry information, salary data, career videos, education resources, self-assessment tools, career exploration assistance, and other resources that support talent development in today's fast-paced global marketplace.
mySkills myFuture helps laid-off workers and other career changers find new occupations to explore. Users can identify occupations that require skills and knowledge similar to their current or previous job, learn more about these suggested matches, locate local training programs, and/or apply for jobs.
Competency Model Clearinghouse provides the business community with a means to communicate its skill needs to educators and the workforce system in a common industry-driven framework. The models and other competency-based resources support development of curriculum and increased awareness of careers in high-growth industries.
Worker ReEmployment provides employment, training, and financial assistance for laid-off workers. The website includes a Job Search tool with job listings for all fifty states updated daily. Users will also find resources for getting immediate help with unemployment insurance, healthcare, and other financial needs; job searching and resume tips; changing careers and understanding transferable skills; and upgrading skills through education and training.
Veterans ReEmployment is a one-stop website for employment, training, and financial help after military service. The website includes the Military-to-Civilian Job Search tool where veterans and service members can search for jobs based on the skills and experiences they gained in the military. The site also includes tips for job searching and links to national, state, and local resources specifically for veteran job seekers.
Key to Career Success provides career information and links to work-related services that help veterans and military service members successfully transition to civilian careers.

CareerOneStop
1-877-348-0502 | TTY 1-877-348-0501
info@careeronestop.org
www.careeronestop.org










Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms