URL: https://www.franklin.edu/current-students/student-services/safety-security
Safety & Security | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Safety & Security 

Home
                /  
                                              Student Services
                /  
                                              Safety & Security
                          

  A Safe & Secure Campus



Franklin’s Department of Safety & Security Services works hard to maintain the highest level of safety across our campus community. In collaboration with our students, staff, faculty, visitors and local law enforcement, we participate in safety services and crime-prevention programs that help make Franklin a safe and secure place to learn.




Safety & Security Office

Download Annual Security ReportSign up for Alerts




			
  Contact Information

			


If you are in a life-threatening situation, call 9-1-1 first before calling campus security.
Main Campus:
614.947.6902
Assistant Director of Safety & Security Services:
614.902.2755






			
  Policy Information

			


HEOA, CLERY Act, VAWA PolicyCampus Access Control PolicyEmergency Mass Notification PolicyReporting Criminal or Suspicious ActivitiesVideo Surveillance PolicyAfter Hours Access to Campus BuildingsChildren on Campus PolicyInclement Weather Policy












  Campus Safety





Staying Safe at Franklin
Help us keep Franklin’s Main Campus safe and secure. Although security personnel are on duty whenever classes are in session and during routine business hours, they simply cannot be everywhere at once. So we rely on you to report suspicious activity, and to take reasonable precautions to enhance your personal safety while on campus.




View Safety Tips






Intervention & Awareness
If you’re concerned about a situation or behavior that seems inappropriate for campus, please report it (we don’t need your name) so our Franklin Intervention & Awareness Team (FIAT) can address it. FIAT is comprised of both Franklin faculty and administration and is tasked with promoting health and safety through awareness and prevention.




Report a Concern Anonymously








  Emergency Procedures




What to Do In An Emergency 
Because safety matters, we want you to know what to do in case of an on-campus emergency at Franklin. We’ve put together a series of emergency procedures to help ensure that the Franklin University community is a safe and secure learning and working environment.




Download Emergency Management Guide





Active Shooter Emergency Response
The Franklin University Department of Safety & Security Services works hard to maintain the highest level of safety across our campus community. In collaboration with our students, staff, faculty, visitors and local law enforcement, we participate in safety services and crime-prevention programs that help make Franklin a safe and secure place to work and learn.
With this goal in mind, the Department of Safety & Security Services has collaborated with our safety partners to provide a video addressing what you can do to stay safe in the event of an active shooter and/or active aggressor incident on our campus.
While it is everyone’s hope we never have to deal with this situation, we hope you will make time to watch this important video:

Naloxone and the Opioid Task Force
Franklin University recognizes the impact that opioid addiction has on the community. Since 2019, the Department of Safety & Security Services has received regular training in recognizing the signs of an opioid overdose and in administering Naloxone. Naloxone (commonly known as NARCAN®) is a medication that can reverse an overdose caused by an opioid drug (heroin, illicit fentanyl, or prescription pain medications). When administered during an overdose, naloxone blocks the effects of opioids on the brain and quickly restores breathing. Naloxone has been used safely by emergency medical professionals for more than 40 years and has only one critical function: to prevent overdose death by reversing the effects of opioids. Naloxone is a safe, non-controlled drug and has no potential for abuse.
An opioid overdose happens when a person takes too much of an opioid, or combination of opioids and other drugs, at a level that is toxic to the body. Sometimes it can be hard to tell if a person who is using opioids is actually experiencing a life-threatening overdose. If you are unsure, it is best to assume there is an overdose — you could save a life. Signs of an overdose include:

Unresponsiveness or unconsciousness.
Slowed or stopped breathing.
Snoring or gurgling sounds.
Cold or clammy skin.
Discolored lips or fingernails.

In partnership with Franklin County Public Health, the Franklin University Department of Safety & Security Services maitains a supply of Naloxone. If you witness someone on or near campus whom you believe may have overdosed on opioids, call 911, then contact the Department of Safety and Security Services at 614-947-6902. For additional information, please visit https://www.opioidtaskforce.org/







  Crime Alerts




Awareness is key to staying safe so this area is dedicated to alerting the Franklin University community about suspicious behavior or crime occurring on or near any of our locations.
Staff and students are reminded to always be aware of their surroundings and avoid suspicious persons or activities. Staff and students should report any information they have regarding this incident or any future suspicious activity they observe to the Department of Safety and Security Services at 614-947-6902 or the local police department having jurisdiction at the particular Franklin location.
If you witness any suspicious person(s) or vehicles in or around Franklin University please contact the Special Duty Officer at (614) 947-6902. In a life threatening emergency dial "911."
If you have information related to any posted alerts, please contact Safety & Security Services at 614.947.6900.






  Documents









			2023 Annual Security Report
		2022-23



			Franklin University Petition for Grievance Appeal Form
		



			2024 Annual Security Report
		



			After Hours Access to Campus Buildings Policy
		



			Annual Security Report
		















Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University










Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms