















About The Library | Franklin University












To access O'Reilly Learning Platform eBooks,

Click on the "Institution not listed?" link.
Enter your Franklin email address and click Go
If you have already created an O'Reilly Learning Platform account,
            
click "Already a user?" link
Enter your Franklin email and the password you used to create your O'Reilly Learning Platform account.



ContinueClose











About The Library 

Home
                /  
                                              About The Learning Commons
                          

  Welcome to the Franklin University Learning Commons



In line with the university mission, the Learning Commons is committed to providing services and resources to empower students, staff, faculty, and the community, by way of quality research collections, outstanding services, and excellent user education, enabling them to become independent lifelong learners. The Learning Commons manages and provides seamless access to tutoring services, print and online scholarly information, testing services, offers research consultations, info literacy instruction; provides state of the art facility and equipment, and advocates on behalf of students to maintain a pleasant physical space for learning and scholarly activities.On August 1st, 2016, the Nationwide Library and former Student Learning Center (SLC) merged. By merging the library and SLC, a single learning space was formed to support students in research, writing, tutoring, and testing.














  Contact Us
Contact us by phone, email, or chat or come see us in the Learning Commons! We are happy to help!Learn More



  Hours & Holidays
Check our current hours, including closures due to holidays, weather, etc. Learn More



  Mission & Facts
The Library Mission Statement demonstrates our dedication to the students, faculty, and staff at Franklin University. Learn more about our Mission and Vision, as well as find some interesting facts about your library. Learn More



  Policies
Find details on our policies for using library services, materials, and the Learning Commons space, as well as our collection development policy.Learn More









  Donations




If you wish to donate to Franklin University Library, please see our Donation Guidelines.




Material Donations
Non-Material Donations










Library


Tutoring & Workshops


Testing


About The Learning Commons


FUSE


Video Tutorials





Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Frasch Hall, First Floor201 South Grant AvenueColumbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 947-6550

          Toll Free: (866) 341-6252
        

library@franklin.edu




Copyright 2024 Franklin University Nationwide Library



 




Virtual Reference Available
View Library, Tutoring or Testing Hours: 

-Select-
Library/Building Hours
Testing Hours
Tutoring Hours







Library


Databases


Research Guides


Books & Ebooks


Journals


Research Coaching


Faculty & Staff Services


Interlibrary Loan Request


Archives & Special Collections




Tutoring & Workshops


Tutoring


Workshops


Structured Learning Assistance


Additional Study Resources




Testing


Class & Placement Testing


Proctoring Services


Proficiency Testing


Testing Policies




About The Learning Commons


Contact Us


Hours & Holidays


E-textbook Initiative


Mission & Facts


Policies




FUSE


Video Tutorials




I NEED TO:



Meet With A Librarian


Renew My Book


Book A Room


Request Interlibrary Loan


Meet With a Tutor


Register For a Workshop


Submit to Online Writing Review


Take a Placement Test


Schedule an Exam



SHORTCUTS:



myLibrary Account


Contact Us


Policy Info


News


Hours & Holidays


Documents & Forms












