















Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program 

Home
                /  
                                              Military & Veterans
                /  
                                              Military Benefits
                /  
                                              Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program
                          

  Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program



Subject to funding available from the Ohio General Assembly, the Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program provides tuition up to $5,202.00 ($434.00 per credit hour) per trimester to Army and Air National Guard members attending a two- or four-year public or private college or university. The scholarship is available for up to eight full-time trimesters. Scholarship program recipients must maintain good attendance at their unit drills.




OMVA Office Information



			
  Contact Us

			


Phone: 614.797.4700 
Fax: 614.255.9514 
omva@franklin.edu
Paul J. Otte Center for Student Services
331 E. Rich St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215






			
  Office Hours

			


Monday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Thursday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed












  Application Process




For each trimester you plan to attend, you must be actively enrolled in a minimum of three (3) credit hours at the time of disbursement to be eligible for benefits. Obtain your application form and submit to the Adjutant General's Department by the following deadlines:You may submit applications up to your school's final no-penalty, add/drop date.Note:Apply for your ONGSP benefits as early as possible! Once your school opens the terms for any given semester, the application window for ONGSP will be available.If your school requires acknowledgment of verification of benefits by a specific date, plan to give your unit a minimum of 60 days to review your application, when possible.Schools currently have no visibility of pending applications but will see your approved application in its portal as soon as the unit reviewer processes it.If you apply after the school has processed benefit certifications for the semester, reach out to OMVA@franklin.edu for retroactive benefit application detailsQuestions? Contact the ONGSP by phone at 614.336.7032, toll-free at 1.888.400.6484.CertificationsThe Office of Military and Veteran Affairs will certify National Guard Scholarships approximately the 3rd week of each semester, based on current enrollment hours.Attending more than one school using ONGSP?If you plan to use ONGSP at two different schools, you must apply for the ONGSP scholarship at both institutions, and be actively enrolled in a minimum of three (3) credit hours at each school at the time of disbursement in order to be eligible for ONGS benefits.Important NotesPer instructions from the Ohio Department of Higher Education, OCOG payments should not be applied if you are receiving ONGSP that covers 100% of your tuition. Therefore you are only eligible if your tuition charges exceed the amount ONGSP is paying.The combination of the Post-9/11 and ONGSP must not exceed 100% of the tuition.ONGSP will be applied to tuition first and then Post-9/11 GI Bill will be applied if there is a remaining balance.For students that use Federal Tuition Assistance (FTA), please note that you cannot apply for Ohio National Guard Scholarship (ONGS) and then also request FTA funding for the same class(es). The current hierarchy of benefits is that FTA is to be exhausted before use of ONGSP funding. Please see your Academic Advisor for more details.Benefits are measured in units (based on educational credits)Maximum units available: ~ See breakdown of hours to units•   Members who enlist in the Ohio National Guard for six years are eligible for 96 units•   Members who enlist in the Ohio National Guard for three to five years are eligible for 48 units









Learning Support


Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University



 






Learning Support


Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms











