















Post 9/11 GI Bill® | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Post 9/11 GI Bill® 

Home
                /  
                                              Military & Veterans
                /  
                                              Military Benefits
                /  
                                              Post 911 GI Bill
                          

  Post 9/11 GI Bill® - Chapter 33



The first thing you should do is determine your eligibility for the Post 9/11 GI Bill with the VA by calling 1-888-GIBILL-1 or clicking here.  Generally speaking, you are eligible for Post 9/11 GI Bill if you have served at least 90 days on full-time active duty service.




OMVA Office Information



			
  Contact Us

			


Phone: 614.797.4700 
Fax: 614.255.9514 
omva@franklin.edu
Paul J. Otte Center for Student Services
331 E. Rich St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215






			
  Office Hours

			


Monday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Thursday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed












  How to Apply for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®




Action Items
1. Complete the Application for Benefits (22-1990) form on the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs application for benefits website. (If you are chaging schools from a previous instiution to Franklin University, see step 2

Following the successful processing of your benefits application, the VA will issue a “Certificate of Eligibility” to you by mail. The VA will not send this to the school; it is your responsibility to send a copy of this to Franklin University's Office of Military & Veteran Affairs (OMVA) upon receipt.
The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs currently estimates that processing will require up to thirty calendar days. Franklin University cannot be responsible for complications or delays in benefit awards due to VA delays in application processing.

2. Complete the Change of Place or Training (22-1995) form instead of the 22-1990 if you have used your benefits at any previous school.
Certification of Benefits

Upon registration and receipt of all required documentation, Franklin's Office of Military & Veterans Affairs (OMVA) will forward an Enrollment Certification (22-1999) to the VA Regional Office.
If you are at the 100% tier your tuition will be paid by the VA around 10 days before each class begins. You will not need to pay upfront for your tuition.
If you are at anything less than 100% you will be responsible for paying your portion of your tuition adhering to Franklin’s payment policy (payment is due at the beginning of your first class).

Important Note about receiving housing stipend each month:
Starting in the 2021-2022 school year, Post-9/11 GI Bill® students who receive Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments are required to verify their enrollment to continue receiving their payments. Students are required to verfify their attendance at the first of each month following the month they were enrolled. Enrollment verification is a new requirement for Post-9/11 GI Bill® students to verify that they have remained enrolled in the same courses or training every month. Students who receive MHA/kicker payments will have their payments withheld if they fail to verify or report that they are no longer enrolled in their courses or training. To streamline the process, VA is providing the option to verify enrollment easily and securely via text message. 

Learn how to opt-in for text message enrollment verficiation directly with the VA, or other options, here!

Situations that may affect payment of VA benefits include the following:

Repeated or audited courses
Change or addition of major program
Add or drop in credit hours
Developmental education courses not applicable to degree and/or taken as online
Any education course in which a grade of “Z”, “NZ”, or “W” is earned
Non-receipt of official transcripts from previous colleges and universities attended
Online classes (reduced stipend)
VA training time

Regulations require that all such items be reported to the VA so that adjustments can be made accordingly. Failure to notify the Office of Military & Veteran Affairs may result in overpayments or withholding of benefits.
For more information on Post-9/11 GI Bill® please visit the VA Website.
Transfer of Post-9/11 GI Bill® Benefits to Dependents (TEB):
Service members enrolled in the Post-9/11 GI Bill® program will be able to transfer unused educational benefits to their spouses or children as of August 1, 2009.  Please view the following eligibility requirements:

Eligibility to Transfer
Eligible Dependents
Nature of Transfer

Transfer to Family Member Process:
First you must go to the DoD transferability application website to determine if your dependents are eligible to receive the transferred benefits. This website is only available to military members.

The Service member will need to complete the Transfer of Benefits Application

Upon approval, family members may apply to use transferred benefits with VA by completing VA Form 22-1990e. VA Form 22-1990e should only be completed and submitted to VA by the family member after DoD has approved the request for TEB. Do not use VA Form 22-1990e to apply for TEB.
 
Paper Version of 22-1990e
Certification of Benefits
To initially set up your VA record and use your elilgilble benefits at Franklin University, please see the following requirements.

Submit a copy of your certificate of eligibility (COE) or a screenshot of your e-benefit confirmation of entitlement to OMVA@franklin.edu
Once your record is updated to show you have been approved to use VA benefits at Franklin University, you will receive an automated email each semester that you register for classes to inquire if you would like us to certify your enrollment and submit it to the VA.
	
Once we receive your reply to that outreach, we will act upon the request.  
After your enrollment is certified, you will receive a confirmation email from VAOnce to show your enrollment has been sent to the VA.
Verify your attendance following each month you were enrolled and certified in order to receving your housing stipend or kicker payments



If you are at anything less than 100% you will be responsible for paying your portion of your tuition adhering to Franklin’s payment policy (payment is due at the beginning of your first class). Plan to use your book stipend for any e-book or other course material charges. 
 
GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill.









Learning Support


Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University



 






Learning Support


Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms











