















Reserve Education Assistance Program | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Reserve Education Assistance Program 

Home
                /  
                                              Military & Veterans
                /  
                                              Military Benefits
                /  
                                              Reserve Education Assistance Program
                          

  Reserve Education Assistance Program (REAP) – Chapter 1607



REAP was established as a part of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005. It is a Department of Defense education benefit program designed to provide educational assistance to members of the Reserve components called or ordered to active duty in response to a war or national emergency (contingency operation) as declared by the president or Congress.




OMVA Office Information



			
  Contact Us

			


Phone: 614.797.4700 
Fax: 614.255.9514 
omva@franklin.edu
Paul J. Otte Center for Student Services
331 E. Rich St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215






			
  Office Hours

			


Monday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Thursday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed











  About The Program




This program makes certain reservists who were activated for at least 90 days after Sept. 11, 2001 either eligible for education benefits or eligible for increased benefits.
 
Effective November 2015, REAP has been sunset by the VA. During this transition, some students that used REAP in FALL/2015 were still be eligible to continue to use the CH 1607 benefit. However, now the VA is determining the eligibility of CH 33 Post 9/11 benefits and in most cases ending any remaining REAP/CH 1607 entitlements. 
 
You should call 1-888-GIBILL1 to speak with a VA representative to learn more about your specific benefits.  







  Application Process




1. Complete the Application for Benefits (22-1990) form on the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. Or see step 2 if you have ever used VA educational benefits at another school.

Following the successful processing of your benefits application, the VA will issue a Certificate of Eligibility to you by mail. The VA will not send this to the school; it is your responsibility to send a copy of this to OMVA at Franklin upon receipt.
The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs currently estimates that processing will require 28 calendar days. Franklin University cannot be responsible for complications or delays in benefit awards due to VA delays in application processing.

2. Complete the Change of Place or Training (22-1995) form instead of the 22-1990 if you have used your benefits at previous school.
3. Submit a Plan of Attendance (POA) each academic year in which benefits are requested.
4. Certification of Benefits
To initially set up your VA record and benefits at Franklin University, please see the following requirements.

•    Submit a copy of your certificate of eligibility (COE) or a screenshot of your e-benefit to: OMVA@franklin.edu
Once your record is updated to show you have been approved to use VA benefits at Franklin University, you will receive an email each semester that you register for classes to inquire if you would like us to certify your enrollment and submit it to the VA. Once we receive your reply to that outreach, we will act upon the request.  After your enrollment is certified, you will receive a confirmation email from VAOnce to show your enrollment has been sent to the VA. 
5. Verify Attendance

Log in to the W.A.V.E. website on the last calendar day of every month to verify your enrollment.

Important Note
Situations that may affect payment of VA benefits include the following:

Repeated or audited courses
Change or addition of major program
Add or drop in credit hours
Developmental education courses not applicable to degree
Any education course in which a grade of “Z”, “NZ”, or “W” is earned
Non-receipt of official transcripts from previous colleges and universities attended
VA training time

Regulations require that all such items be reported to the VA so that adjustments can be made accordingly. Failure to notify the Veterans Specialist may result in overpayments or withholding of benefits.









Learning Support


Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University



 






Learning Support


Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms











