















Survivors & Dependents Assistance | Current Students | Franklin.edu



















Survivors & Dependents Assistance 

Home
                /  
                                              Military & Veterans
                /  
                                              Military Benefits
                /  
                                              Survivors & Dependents Assistance
                          

  Survivors & Dependents Assistance (Chapter 35)



Dependent’s Educational Assistance provides education and training opportunities to eligible dependents of certain veterans. The program offers up to 45 months of education benefits. These benefits may be used for degree and certificate programs, apprenticeship, and on-the-job training. If you are a spouse, you may take a correspondence course. Remedial, deficiency, and refresher courses may be approved under certain circumstances.




OMVA Office Information



			
  Contact Us

			


Phone: 614.797.4700 
Fax: 614.255.9514 
omva@franklin.edu
Paul J. Otte Center for Student Services
331 E. Rich St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215






			
  Office Hours

			


Monday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Thursday: 8:00am - 6:00pm
Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed












  Eligibility




You may be eligible for VA education benefits (Chapter 35 benefits) if you’re the child or spouse of a service member and one of these descriptions listed is true of the service member.
One of these must be true:

The service member died in the line of duty after September 10, 2001, or
The service member is missing in action or was captured in the line of duty by a hostile force, or
The service member was detained (held) by force while in the line of duty by a foreign government or power, or
The service member is in the hospital or getting outpatient treatment for a service-connected permanent and total disability, and is likely to be discharged for that disability. A service-connected permanent and total disability is a disability resulting from your service that doesn’t go away.

You may be eligible for VA education benefits (Chapter 35 benefits) if you’re the child or spouse of a Veteran and one of these descriptions listed is true of the Veteran.
One of these must be true:

The Veteran is permanently and totally disabled due to a service-connected disability, or
The Veteran died while on active duty or as a result of a service-connected disability

If you’re a dependent who doesn’t meet the above criteria, you may still qualify for VA education benefits if the Veteran or service member transferred some or all of their Post-9/11 GI Bill entitlement to you while they were on active duty.
1. Complete the Dependent’s Application for VA Educational Benefits (22-5490) form on the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs.

Print three copies of your application: one copy for your record, one copy to send to the VA, and one copy that you will submit to the Franklin’s Office of Military and Veteran Affairs.
Following the successful processing of your benefits application, the VA will issue a Certificate of Eligibility to you by mail. The VA will not send this to the school; it is your responsibility to send a copy of this to the Office of Military and Veteran Affairs at Franklin upon receipt.
The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs currently estimates that processing will require 28 calendar days. Franklin University cannot be responsible for complications or delays in benefit awards due to VA delays in application processing.

2. Complete the Dependent’s Request for Change of Program or Place of Training (22-5495) form instead of the 22-5490 if you have used your benefits at a previous school.
Certification of Benefits
To initially set up your VA record and benefits at Franklin University, please see the following requirements.
•    Submit a copy of your certificate of eligibility (COE) or a screenshot of your e-benefit to OMVA@franklin.edu
Once your record is updated to show you have been approved to use VA benefits at Franklin University, you will receive an email each semester that you register for classes to inquire if you would like us to certify your enrollment and submit it to the VA. Once we receive your reply to that outreach, we will act upon the request.  After your enrollment is certified, you will receive a confirmation email from VAOnce to show your enrollment has been sent to the VA. The VA will pay you directly each month for all entitled benefits proportioned to your enrollment. 









Learning Support


Academic Resources


Financial Services


Student Services


Military & Veterans


International Students


Blog





Copyright 2024 Franklin University



 






Learning Support


Academic Resources


Academic Advising


Dept. of Accounting, Finance & Risk Management


Examinations


Experiential Learning


Professional Organizations


Student, Alumni and Faculty Spotlight




Registration


University Bulletin


Textbooks


Graduation Information


Transfer Credit Information


Request Your Franklin Transcripts




Financial Services


COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds


HEERF Quarterly Report




Payment Options & Refunds


Financial Aid


Federal & State Aid


Special Circumstances


Unusual Circumstances


Institutional Aid & Private Loans


Verification Process


Disbursing Aid


Things That Affect Your Aid


Return to Title IV Policy


Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy


Financial Aid Resources




Tuition & Fees


Scholarships




Student Services


Technology Support


Wellness Resources


Career Development


Student Life


Student Organizations & Activities




Counseling Services


LGBTQ+ Resources


Community Standards & Student Code of Conduct


Consortium Course Enrollment


University Directory


Safety & Security


Bookstore


Office of Accessibility Services


Institutional Review Board (IRB)




Military & Veterans


Military Benefits


Military Family Member Discount


Military Scholarships


Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserves


Ohio National Guard Scholarship Program


Post 911 GI Bill


ROTC - Reserve Officer Training Corps


Reserve Education Assistance Program


Survivors & Dependents Assistance


Space Force (USSF)


Training Time


Veteran Payment Policies


Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VetSuccess Program


Yellow Ribbon Program




Resources


Career Development




International Students


Getting Started


Applying For F-1 Visa


F-1 Visa Checklist


Financial Responsibility


Tips For a Successful Visa Interview


Change to F-1 Status


Bringing Dependents to the U.S.




Maintaining F-1 Status


Enrolling in Classes


Updating Records


Traveling


Resolving Status Problems


Completing Your Program




Living in the U.S.


Housing


Transportation


Accident & Illness Insurance


Your Rights in the U.S.




Working in the U.S.


On-Campus Employment


Curricular Practical Training (CPT)


Optional Practical Training (OPT)


Module 1: Am I Eligible For OPT?


Module 2: How do I prepare for OPT?


Module 3: What do I do once I’ve applied for OPT?


Module 4: What do I do when my OPT is ending?




Severe Economic Hardship


Taxes




International Student Orientation




Blog




SHORTCUTS:



MyFranklin


Technology FAQ


Library


News


Events


Documents & Forms











