














Tutoring (Login) | Franklin University












To access O'Reilly Learning Platform eBooks,

Click on the "Institution not listed?" link.
Enter your Franklin email address and click Go
If you have already created an O'Reilly Learning Platform account,
            
click "Already a user?" link
Enter your Franklin email and the password you used to create your O'Reilly Learning Platform account.



ContinueClose











Tutoring 

Home
                /  
                                              Tutoring & Workshops
                /  
                                              Tutoring
                          

  Tutoring Services



As a Franklin student, you have access to free tutoring services. With online options, you can be sure to find something that fits your needs and your schedule.
The Learning Commons holds an average of 2,000 tutoring sessions a term with 70% of sessions provided in support of computer science, mathematics and writing.




Contact Information






			
  Main Campus, Downtown Columbus

			


Frasch Hall, First Floor
201 S. Grant Ave.
Columbus, OH 43215
Phone: 614.947.6800 or
toll free 1.866.341.6206
Fax: 614.947.6810
Fax: 614.255.9560
Learning Commons Email > 











  Get Started




View Tutoring Schedule
Schedule a Tutoring Appointment*
Submit a Paper for Online Writing Review
Sign in and Upload a Paper to Grammarly (std username and password required)





*Having trouble finding an available tutoring appointment? Click here >






  What is Tutoring?




Tutoring is: 

Far more than just homework help – Instead, our tutoring approach is designed to help reinforce concepts from the course.
Foundational level support – our tutoring program focuses on core, introductory Franklin classes.
Coaching, encouraging, mentoring.
Free to currently enrolled students.
	 

Tutoring is not:

A homework service – our tutors will not do your homework for you. Instead they will help you understand the concepts so you can improve your level of understanding.
A substitute for going to class – you get the most out of tutoring by attending all classes and being prepared to ask tutors specific questions
Only for those who are chronically "lost" in a course – the best students know their limitations and use tutors to help them along the way.

Tutoring Policies and Guidelines
All Franklin students are expected to adhere to the following tutoring policies as a courtesy to other students and our tutors:

Prepare for the appointment - Students are expected to be prepared for tutoring.  Make sure that you are prepared for your tutoring appointment by attending class regularly, reading the assigned materials, attempting assigned coursework, and preparing questions for the tutor.
Bring course materials - Students are expected to bring their own materials to the tutoring appointment, including textbooks, writing utensils and calculators.
Expect concept-based tutoring - While the tutors will assist with any questions regarding the covered concepts, they will not assist you with graded assignments.
Schedule number of sessions - You may schedule up to two tutoring appointments per week per subject (e.g., two math, two writing, etc.). Please note that you may schedule only one appointment in the same subject each day and that the online writing review also counts as an appointment.
Show up on time - It is crucial that you show up on time for your scheduled appointment. The tutor will wait no more than 10 minutes; thereafter, your appointment will lapse and you will be considered a no-show.
Cancel on time - In the event you cannot attend your scheduled tutoring session, please cancel your appointment within the WC Online tutoring system no later than two hours before your scheduled appointment. Any cancellation occurring thereafter will be documented as a Late Cancelation. 
No-show policy - Two no-shows, regardless of the subject, will result in your termination from scheduling any further tutoring appointments for the remainder of the term.
Late Cancelation policy-Four late cancelations (appointment cancelations within in two-hours of your appointment), regardless of subject, will result in your termination from scheduling any further tutoring appointments for the remainder of the term.
Instructor notification - The Learning Commons prepares weekly reports to the instructors, notifying them of your tutoring services usage.

Students are expected to follow all of these tutoring guidelines. Not doing so may result in the forfeiture of further Learning Commons assistance.
*The Learning Commons reserves the right to schedule appointments based off of tutor availability and not personal preference.






  Writing Services




Online Writing ReviewThe writing service is available to review and provide feedback on your paper prior to in class submission. Just complete a form with basic information about yourself and the assignment, then email your paper to the Learning Commons. Your paper is then reviewed by a qualified tutor who adds comments to your paper and returns it to you within 24-48 hours.Submit Paper for Review > GrammarlyThis online writing support tool is designed to help Franklin University students improve their sentence-level writing skills. Through this website, you can upload a draft of your assignment and receive instant feedback on grammar and mechanics. In order to utilize this service, you must use your Franklin email address.Upload Paper to Grammarly >







  Additional Study Resources




“Important achievements require a clear focus, all-out effort, and a bottomless trunk full of strategies, plus allies in learning”
- Carol Dweck
Students often think all that is necessary to be a good student is showing up for class, taking notes, reading their textbook and studying right before the tests. However, learning, like many other activities, involves a particular set of skills and strategies that require practice to be successful.  As one of your allies in learning, the Learning Commons has curated the following online resources and strategies to help you improve your study skills and habits. 





			
  Time Management

			


Being able to manage your time effectively is KEY to college success.  Here a few resources to help you manage your time and create new habits. How to Stop Wasting Time - 5 Useful Time Management Tips Printable Time Management and Students Activity Log  Time Management for Students: 10 Strategies and Tips to Maximize Your Time and Build Your Focus8 Habits of Highly Successful StudentsOur Habits, Routines, and Motivation StrategiesHow to Beat Procrastination






			
  Study Tips

			



Reading, Rereading, and Rereading is NOT studying! Instead rereading your text and notes repeatedly, try one of these other ‘active’ study techniques: 
	
Create a mind map that explains the concepts 
Self- Quizzing 
Using a notetaking system (Cornell Notes, Concept Maps, Outline, Annotation, Flow Notes) 
Summarize material in YOUR OWN WORDS 
Learn more about Active Reading techniques: https://collegeinfogeek.com/active-reading/


Cramming/ Massed Practice studying is one of the LEAST effective way of studying! 
	
People normally forget 70% of the information they hear and/or read with 24 hours if they do not review the information.   
Review your notes before going to bed 
Spacing out study sessions—spaced repetition focusing on a topic for a short period on different days—has been shown to improve retention and recall more than massed practice. 
Flashcards- Try using the Leitner System.  This system using the principle of spaced repetition, where cards are reviewed at increasing intervals. 
Learn more about this technique: https://collegeinfogeek.com/spaced-repetition-memory-technique/ 


 Memorizing Information is NOT enough in most college courses. 
	
As a college student, you will be required to think critically about topics: remember, understand, apply, analyzing, evaluate and create information. 
When learning new concepts, try to connect it to something you already know, real-life experiences and situation. 
Learn more about Critical Thinking: https://collegeinfogeek.com/improve-critical-thinking-skills/ 


There is MORE to studying than just reviewing your notes. 
	
Review your notes is just as ineffective as reading and rereading.  You have to be active in the learning process. 
Self-Quizzing:  make test questions for yourself as you learn new concepts.  Try predicting the types of questions your instructor may ask you on a quiz or test. 
Interleaving Practice:  instead of studying one concept, subject or skill at a time, try mixing up your study sessions by studying several related skills together.  This works great for math. 
To learn more about interleaving: https://collegeinfogeek.com/improve-critical-thinking-skills/ 


Where you study matters! 
	
Use a regular study area. Your brain and body know where you are. When you use the same place to study, day after day, your body becomes trained and will allow you to focus your concentration more quickly.  
To learning more about study spaces: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kB6wJkWO2SY 









			
  Motivation

			


New York Times and Wall Street Journal best-selling author Daniel Pink discusses motivation and how it relates to student education experiences: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m5HOIVVIE2M
Here is an animation describing his thoughts: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc
How to Make Yourself Study When You Have ZERO Motivation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9oWOsocN7qg






			
  Resources for overcoming testing anxiety

			



https://www.princetonreview.com/college-advice/test-anxiety
https://collegeinfogeek.com/test-anxiety/







			
  Confronting Math Anxiety 

			


Online math classes can actually reduce levels of anxiety! There is reduced concern of being called on or put on the spot. You have the opportunity to ask questions with relative anonymity and can work through problems and review materials at your own pace. There is an opportunity to thoughtfully formulate your questions and present them to instructors and tutors. 
Check out these videos from Franklin’s institute: 

How to read a math textbook
Working in study groups 
How to approach taking a math test – includes math anxiety info.  
How to succeed in an online math course 
Math anxiety can be a common student concern. Check out this list from Ferris State for additional tips: https://www.ferris.edu/RSS/ASC/reduce-math-anxiety.htm
	 








  Frequently Asked Questions





		In what subjects does the Learning Commons offer tutoring?
		


Tutoring is available for ACCT 215, 225, 310, 390, 420, 729; COMP  101, 111, 121, 281, 311, 501, 502, 511; ENG 101;  ITEC 136, FINA 301, 737; Math 040, 140, 150, 160,180, 201, 215, 280; HCM 733, PF 106, 108; WEBD 101, 236; and general computer help. Help with writing in most subjects is also available. 




		What types of tutoring formats are offered?
		


Tutoring formats include scheduled online appointments and online writing reviews. 




		When can I schedule my tutoring appointments?
		




You may schedule tutoring appointments up to one week in advance. Please register using our Online Registration System.




		What are the Learning Commons tutoring policies?
		


Please see the “Tutoring Policies & Student Expectations” information on the Tutoring page prior to your tutoring appointment.




		Can I schedule two consecutive tutoring appointments?
		




No. Consecutive appointments for any subject are not permitted. You may, however, schedule two appointments per week, per subject as long as they are scheduled on different days. 


See All >








Library


Tutoring & Workshops


Testing


About The Learning Commons


FUSE


Video Tutorials





Degrees


Microcredentials & Certificates


Admissions


Tuition & Financial Aid


Transferring Credit


The Franklin Experience


About Us




Franklin University
 Founded in 1902, Franklin is an accredited nonprofit university offering flexible college degrees online and at locations in Ohio and the Midwest.





          Frasch Hall, First Floor201 South Grant AvenueColumbus, OH 43215


          Local: (614) 947-6550

          Toll Free: (866) 341-6252
        

library@franklin.edu




Copyright 2024 Franklin University Nationwide Library



 




Virtual Reference Available
View Library, Tutoring or Testing Hours: 

-Select-
Library/Building Hours
Testing Hours
Tutoring Hours







Library


Databases


Research Guides


Books & Ebooks


Journals


Research Coaching


Faculty & Staff Services


Interlibrary Loan Request


Archives & Special Collections




Tutoring & Workshops


Tutoring


Workshops


Structured Learning Assistance


Additional Study Resources




Testing


Class & Placement Testing


Proctoring Services


Proficiency Testing


Testing Policies




About The Learning Commons


Contact Us


Hours & Holidays


E-textbook Initiative


Mission & Facts


Policies




FUSE


Video Tutorials




I NEED TO:



Meet With A Librarian


Renew My Book


Book A Room


Request Interlibrary Loan


Meet With a Tutor


Register For a Workshop


Submit to Online Writing Review


Take a Placement Test


Schedule an Exam



SHORTCUTS:



myLibrary Account


Contact Us


Policy Info


News


Hours & Holidays


Documents & Forms












